Local prediction pools
Oscar Oelricha∗, Mattias Villania,b and Sebastian Ankargren
aDepartment of Statistics, Stockholm University
bDept. of Computer and Info. Science, Link¨oping University
We propose local prediction pools as a method for combining the predictive
distributions of a set of experts conditional on a set of variables believed to be
related to the predictive accuracy of the experts. This is done in a two step
process where we first estimate the conditional predictive accuracy of each
expert given a vector of covariates—or pooling variables—and then combine
the predictive distributions of the experts conditional on this local predic-
tive accuracy. To estimate the local predictive accuracy of each expert, we
introduce the simple, fast, and interpretable caliper method. Expert pooling
weights from the local prediction pool approaches the equal weight solution
whenever there is little data on local predictive performance, making the pools
robust and adaptive. We also propose a local version of the widely used op-
timal prediction pools. Local prediction pools are shown to outperform the
widely used optimal linear pools in a macroeconomic forecasting evaluation,
and in predicting daily bike usage for a bike rental company.
Keywords: Bayesian predictive synthesis; density forecasts; combining fore-
casts; macroeconomic forecasting; nonparametric methods.
1 Introduction
Forecast combination has a long history in statistics and related areas (Clemen, 1989;
Winkler, 1981) and is widely used in forecasting and policy making (Adolfson et al.,
2007). Early approaches focus on aggregating point forecasts (Bates and Granger, 1969),
whereas a more recent strand of the literature is more concerned with combining forecast
distributions (Hall and Mitchell, 2007; Geweke and Amisano, 2011; Billio et al., 2013;
Kapetanios et al., 2015; Yao et al., 2018; McAlinn et al., 2020; McAlinn, 2021; Casarin
et al., 2023). These combined predictive distributions may come from statistical mod-
els learned from data, or be elicited directly from experts without explicit probabilistic
models, or be a mix of the two types.
An example of forecast combination is macroeconomic forecasting and policy making at
central banks where predictive distributions from dynamic stochastic general equilibrium
∗Corresponding author: oscar.oelrich@stat.su.se
arXiv:2112.09073v2  [stat.ME]  25 Aug 2023

Local prediction pools
(DSGE) and vector autoregressive (VAR) models are combined with forecast distributions
elicited from internal experts (Kjellberg and Villani, 2010). We will use the terms expert
and expert distribution irrespective of whether the predictive distribution comes from
statistical models or from elicitation of expert opinions.
The optimal way to linearly combine statistical predictive models is to jointly estimate
the model parameters in all models and the pooling weights in the combined prediction
in a mixture model (Fr¨uhwirth-Schnatter, 2006).
This ideal is often unattainable in
practice however, either because the set of predictive distributions includes informally
elicited expert opinion or because the models are too complex to be estimated jointly as
a mixture. An example of the former is when large forecasting institutions use dedicated
teams that work on models in isolation, using their own software implementations, which
makes it practically impossible to re-estimate as a single mixture model. Del Negro et al.
(2014) call this informational friction.
A common approach to the combination of expert distributions in the literature is
the linear prediction pool (Lindley et al., 1979; Hall and Mitchell, 2007; Geweke and
Amisano, 2011) where the combined distribution is a linear, often convex, combination of
the expert distributions. Such linear pools have been shown to be optimal from a Bayesian
perspective under certain specific assumptions (Genest and Zidek, 1986; West, 1992).
The expert weights in linear pools are usually chosen to maximize the out-of-sample
predictive performance with respect to some scoring rule, most often the logarithmic
scoring rule; such optimized pools have been termed optimal prediction pools. A related
set of aggregation methods are called stacking in the machine learning literature (Wolpert,
1992) and have more recently also been further developed in the statistical literature
(Yao et al., 2018). Geweke and Amisano (2011) show that optimal prediction pools will
typically converge to a solution that puts non-zero weight on more than one model in
large samples; this is in contrast to Bayesian model averaging where the posterior model
probabilities will asymptotically concentrate entirely on one of the models, even when
the data generating process is outside the set of compared models (Berk, 1966).
The original linear and optimal prediction pools use a single time-invariant weight for
each model. We will term such a weighting scheme a global pool. Global pools implicitly
make the strong assumption that the predictive ability of the experts is the same over
time and for all possible values of any conditioning variables used as explanatory variables
in the models. Some recent work have proposed to use time-varying weights in optimal
prediction pools to allow models to be up- or down-weighted during certain time periods,
see e.g. Del Negro et al. (2014) and Billio et al. (2013). Li et al. (2022) have recently
proposed a generalization of the optimal prediction pools in Geweke and Amisano (2011)
where the weights are allowed to depend on a set of covariates through a softmax function.
Similarly, Yao et al. (2021) extends the stacking method of Yao et al. (2018) by allowing
the model weights to vary as a function of the data.
In this paper, we take a general perspective similar to that in Yao et al. (2021) and
allow the expert weights to vary with respect to a general set of pooling variables, which
are variables that are believed to affect the predictive ability of the experts.
These
pooling variables may include time—giving us time-varying expert weights—but also
other variables that may be related to expert performance. The pooling variables may
be part of the information set of some of the experts, but can equally well be completely
external variables not used by any of the experts, for example a business cycle indicator
aggregated from survey expectations or sentiments extracted from social media. We call
such weighting schemes local prediction pools to emphasize that they are determined by

Local prediction pools
the local predictive performance of the experts.
The main challenge with local prediction pools is the need to learn the local predictive
performance of all the experts. The learned local performance must allow for robust
interpolation and extrapolation across the space of the pooling variables for it to be
useful when constructing pools for predicting new data. This is a challenging problem,
particularly when the number of pooling variables is large and limited data is available
on the prediction performance of the experts.
Given historical measures of predictive ability for each expert and data on the pooling
variables, learning local prediction performance is a problem of surface estimation. The
pooling surface for each of the experts can be estimated using a multitude of smoothing
techniques where the pooling surface is estimated by averaging locally around the point
of interest in the space of pooling variables. With this perspective, a global prediction
pool is an extreme special case where all observations are used equally to estimate global
performance and to construct a single weight on each model, regardless of the state of
the local pooling variables. We propose an easily implemented nonparametric method for
estimating the pooling surface that automatically adapts the degree of locality to the local
concentration of data in the pooling space and the differing historical local performance
of the models in the pool.
The expert weights from this estimator approaches equal
weights locally as the number of past local predictions decreases. We also introduce a
local version of the optimal prediction pool in Geweke and Amisano (2011).
To allow us to interpret local prediction pools in subjectivist Bayesian terms we take the
decision maker perspective of Lindley et al. (1979), where expert predictions are treated
as data used by a decision maker to update her predictive beliefs. We formalize our local
prediction pools using an extension of the Bayesian synthesis framework in Johnson and
West (2018).
The rest of the paper proceeds as follows: Section 2 develops the local prediction pools
framework; Section 3 introduces the caliper method for estimating local predictive ability
together with an illustrative theoretical example; Section 4 contains two applications, in
the first we use local prediction pools to make better quarterly forecasts of key macroe-
conomic variables, and in the second we predict daily bike usage for a bike rental service;
Section 5 concludes.
2 The local pooling framework
This section establishes a theoretical framework for local prediction pools in which a
decision maker (DM) wants to create a combined, or pooled, predictive distribution for
a variable of interest, yt, based on the predictive distributions of K experts. The experts
may be formal statistical models or opinionated humans. To help accomplish this, the
decision maker uses historical data in the form of a sequence of predictions made by the
experts. Furthermore, the DM also has access to a vector of pooling variables, zt ∈Z,
over which she believes that the predictive ability of the experts vary. The aim of the
decision maker is to pool the experts’ forecasts based on their local predictive ability at
the current zt.
To achieve her aim, the decision maker needs to i) set up a pooling space Z, ii) estimate
the local predictive ability of each expert over Z, and iii) use a pooling function to
synthesize the predictions of the experts, conditional on their local predictive ability. This
section goes through these steps in turn, and positions local pools within the Bayesian

Local prediction pools
predictive synthesis (BPS) framework of Johnson and West (2018).
Any scoring function can be used to measure the predictive ability in step ii) but we
will use the logarithmic scoring rule in the form of the log predictive density. The loga-
rithmic scoring rule has the unique advantage of being both local and proper (Bernardo
and Smith, 1994), and is commonly used in model selection. Further, the expected log
predictive density (ELPD) of a predictive distribution is proportional to the Kullback-
Leibler divergence with regards to the data-generating process (Hall and Mitchell, 2007).
The linear pooling function in step iii) is motivated by the Bayesian predictive synthesis
framework (Johnson and West, 2018).
2.1 Setting up the pooling space
The pooling space Z should include all variables that the DM believes co-vary with the
experts’ predictive ability. This can include (transformations of) covariates used by the
experts, as well as variables that none of the experts use. While the DM will often
include some, or even all, of the covariates used by the experts, this does not have to be
the case. In theory, it is possible to set up a pooling space without even knowing which
variables the experts used when they produced their forecasts. The space Z should be
constructed using variables that the DM perceives as determinants of local predictive
ability.
2.2 Estimating local predictive ability over Z
The purpose of using a local pool is to exploit variations in predictive ability over Z. We
conceptualize this variation as a hypersurface in Z for each expert. An intuitive measure
of predictive ability of a model is the expected log predictive density (ELPD) for a new
data point (Gelman et al., 2014). The ELPD of expert k, trained on a sample (y1, ..., yT),
for a new single observation from the data-generating process is given by
ELPD(k) =
Z
log pk (˜yT+1 | y1, . . . , yT) dF(˜yT+1),
(1)
where pk (˜yT+1 | y1, . . . , yT) is the predictive distribution of expert k and F(˜yT+1) is the
cdf of the data-generating process. We denote the local expected log predictive density
of a model k for a specific point zT+1 in Z by
ELPD(k)(zT+1) =
Z
log pk (˜yT+1 | y1, . . . , yT) dF(˜yT+1|zT+1).
(2)
Estimating local predictive ability is a challenging problem since the predictions of the
experts are typically sparse in Z, especially when Z is high-dimensional. To tackle this
estimation problem, the DM is free to use whatever parametric or non-parametric model
she thinks best captures how the predictive abilities of the experts change over Z. This
can mean simple parametric regression models, more elaborate modeling of smoothness
using Gaussian processes, or non-parametric techniques like k-nearest neighbors.
Local predictive ability does not have to be modeled in the same way for all experts.
This allows the decision maker to incorporate beliefs about generalizability that differs
between experts. For example, the predictive ability of a complex model might vary more
quickly over Z, and the decision maker may therefore be less certain about the predictive
performance for regions in Z that the model has not visited in the past.

Local prediction pools
2.3 Synthesizing predictive distributions
The final step in forming the local prediction pool is the combination of the predictions
made by the experts, conditional on their (estimated) local predictive ability. Exactly
how this combination is to be done is ultimately up to the DM, but we will limit the
scope of this paper by only considering linear pools of the form
pDM(yt+1 | H) = w1p1(yt+1) + · · · + wKpK(yt+1),
(3)
where H denotes the set of historical predictive distributions supplied by the K experts, pk
is the predictive distribution of expert k for yt+1, and wk is the weight given to that same
expert. A reasonable constraint to put on the weights is to have them be non-negative and
summing to one, as in the optimal linear prediction pools of Hall and Mitchell (2007) and
Geweke and Amisano (2011), where the weights of the experts are selected to maximize
the historical performance of the pool. Linear pools are simple yet powerful, and have
the additional advantage of allowing us to reframe the third step in subjectivist Bayesian
terms as Jeffrey’s updating (Johnson and West, 2018).
The problem of how to combine conflicting probability assessments, such as predictive
distributions, has a long history (Lindley et al., 1979).
One solution is the decision
maker approach where the predictive distributions are treated as data to be used by
a decision maker (Genest and Zidek, 1986). Once the distributions are taken as data
points, it becomes fairly straight-forward to think in conventional Bayesian terms of
prior to posterior updating.
Johnson and West (2018) show that the use of linear pools can be justified from a
subjective Bayesian perspective through a framework they call Bayesian predictive syn-
thesis (BPS). BPS uses a synthesis function that specifies the posterior conditional on
the predictions of the experts.
p(y | H) =
Z
α(y|x)h(x) dh(x),
(4)
where H =
 h1(·), . . . , hK(·)

is the set of predictive densities supplied by the experts and
α(y|x) is the synthesis function. This updating does not obtain the posterior through
the application of Bayes theorem but rather through Jeffrey’s updating (Diaconis and
Zabell, 1982).
Johnson and West (2018) derive a linear pool version of BPS
p(y | H) =
Z  K
X
k=1
wkδxk(y)
!
h(x) dh(x) =
K
X
k=1
wkhk(y),
(5)
where δx(y) is the Dirac delta function. We can easily extend (5) to a local pool by letting
the weights depend on a vector of pooling variables z
p(y | H, z) =
Z  K
X
k=1
wk(z)δxk(y)
!
h(x) dh(x) =
K
X
k=1
wk(z)hk(y),
(6)
where H is the set containing the K predictive distributions supplied by the experts.
This extension allows us to position local prediction pools within the Bayesian predictive
synthesis framework.

Local prediction pools
3 The caliper method for learning local predictive
performance
In this section we propose the caliper method as a simple, interpretable way of modeling
local predictive ability and combining expert forecasts in a linear pool. We use a simulated
example to illustrate the method.
3.1 The caliper method
The caliper method estimates ELPD(z) by averaging all historical log predictive scores
that occurred within a given distance (caliper width) from z.
Formally, the decision
maker estimates the local ELPD(z) for expert k by
\
ELPD
(k)(z) =
nρ(z)
X
i∈Iρ(z)
log p(k)(yi),
(7)
where Iρ(z) is the set of nρ(z) observations that lie within a caliper of width ρ centered
at z. We will use the Euclidean distance on standardized pooling variables in the appli-
cations, but any distance measure can be used to define the caliper. When nρ(z) = 0,
i.e. when there are no historical observations within the caliper, the ELPD(z) estimate
is set to zero for each expert, leading to equal weights when combining predictions.
The caliper method is similar to k-nearest neighbors (kNN). However, there are two
important differences:
a) kNN will always base its estimate on the k nearest observations, regardless of dis-
tance. If all observations are far away, the kNN estimate can therefore be based
on data of dubious relevance. The caliper method, on the other hand, will only
include observations it regards as close enough, and will default to equal weights
when there is no relevant data.
b) kNN will use exactly k observations, even when there are many more observations
close by. The caliper method, on the other hand, is capable of exploiting variation
in the data density in Z.
Once the decision maker has access to estimates of local predictive ability for each
expert, she needs to combine these predictions in some way. The caliper method combines
predictive distribution using a local linear pool
p(y | H, z) =
K
X
k=1
wk(z)pk(y)
(8)
where the weight of expert k is calculated by feeding the estimates of local predictive
ability through a softmax transformation:
wk(z) =
exp

nρ(z) × \
ELPD
(k)(z)

PK
j=1 exp

nρ(z) × \
ELPD
(j)(z)
,
k = 1, . . . , K,
(9)
The weights in (9) use what we will refer to as natural scaling where the local ELPD
estimates are scaled by the number of observations, nρ(z), used in forming the estimate.

Local prediction pools
Natural scaling will lead to model weights that discriminate more sharply between mod-
els locally when there is more data available; Bayesian model averaging has the same
behavior, but globally.
The caliper width, ρ, determines how close in Z a previous prediction has to be in
order to be deemed relevant for the local estimates, the caliper width should therefore
match how quickly the DM thinks ELPD changes over Z. Selecting the caliper width is
a question of bias-variance tradeoff: a smaller width will better capture the local part of
ELPD(z), but this will come at the expense of basing the estimate on fewer observations,
thereby increasing variance. How small a caliper width the DM can afford will depend
on the sample size and the dimension of Z.
Natural scaling introduces a tension between the locality of experts’ performance and
the degree of discrimination between experts: increasing the caliper width ρ does not only
affect the bias-variance trade-off in the locality of the estimate, it also changes the degree
of discrimination between models. This means that the caliper width that gives best
predictive performance may have little to do with how quickly predictive ability varies in
Z. To break this tension, we allow for departures from natural scaling by introducing a
separate scaling factor τ in the softmax weights
wk(z) =
exp

τ × \
ELPD
(k)(z)

PK
j=1 exp

τ × \
ELPD
(j)(z)
,
k = 1, . . . , K,
(10)
The scaling factor determines how sharply we discriminate between models with differing
estimated predictive ability; it allows us to modify the behavior of the synthezising step
from equal weights (τ = 0) to turning the synthesis into model selection (τ →∞).
To use the caliper method with discrimination, the decision maker must specify two
hyperparameters: i) the caliper width ρ and ii) the scaling factor τ. The DM could in
principle put a prior on ρ and τ, but for the sake of simplicity we treat them as fixed
hyperparameters for the decision maker to select. Alternatively, if the decision maker has
no strong preferences for these hyperparameters, they can be determined by optimization.
This would mean generating pooled predictions for a grid of values of (ρ, τ) and at time
t selecting the hyperparameters that gave best predictive performance in time periods
before time t.
3.2 Illustrative example
To illustrate the process of using local predictive pools and the caliper method, we work
through an example in which the decision maker has access to predictions from two
experts, each in the form of a model
Expert 1 :
y = α(1) + β(1)x1 + ϵ(1),
ϵ(1) iid∼N(0, σ(1))
(11)
Expert 2 :
y = α(2) + β(2)x2 + ϵ(2),
ϵ(2) iid∼N(0, σ(2)).
(12)
Each expert uses a diffuse normal-inverse-gamma (NIG) prior for the parameters to pro-
duce a Bayesian predictive distribution. In order to be able to generate example data, as
well as to derive theoretical quantities like local predictive ability, we need to assume a
specific data-generating process. We use the simple linear model
DGP :
y = x1 + x2 + ϵ,
(13)

Local prediction pools
where ϵ ∼N(0, 1) and new observations from the DGP are generated by independently
drawing values of x1 and x2 from the N(0, 1) distribution.
The first step in creating a local prediction pool is for the DM to set up the pooling
space. She decides to include the covariates of both experts in Z, so that zT = (x1,T, x2,T).
If she wanted to expand Z she could include, for example, an interaction effect (x3 =
x1 × x2), higher order terms (x4 = x2
1, x5 = x2
2), or a variable that neither expert uses.
The second step in creating a local prediction pool is estimating the local predictive
ability of each expert. As we have access to the data-generating process we can visualize
how the predictive ability of the experts varies over Z. The ELPD(z)-surfaces of the
experts can be found in Figure 1 a)–b). Each expert (unknowingly) omits one of the
covariates in the DGP, and so the predictive ability of each expert deteriorates with the
absolute value of this omitted covariate. Figure 1 c) illustrates that there are regions of
Z where the predictive ability of one expert dominates. Using local pooling, we aim to
capture this variation in predictive ability as a function of the pooling variables.
a) Expert 1 (x2 omitted)
b) Expert 2 (x1 omitted)
c) Both experts
Figure 1: Hypersurfaces of the predictive ability of the two experts in Z.
In most applications, the decision maker will not have access to the data-generating
process, making it impossible to directly calculate how the predictive ability of each
expert varies over Z, and it therefore has to be estimated. In this example, the decision
maker will use the caliper method with natural scaling, described in the previous section.
The caliper method requires selecting a caliper width to control the inherent bias-
variance tradeoff in estimating local predictive performance. Figure 2 shows the sampling
distribution of the error in the estimate of ELPD(z) for Expert 2 as a function of the
caliper width. The figure was constructed by repeatedly sampling realizations of size
N = 2000 from the data generating process in (13) with the last 1000 observations being
used to estimate the predictive ability of the model. Since the predictive distribution of
the expert depends on the realized data, each realization has its own true ELPD(z).
Figure 2 a) illustrates the performance of Expert 2 at the point z = (0, 0) where this
expert fits the data well. Increasing the caliper width will lead to reduced variance, but
also an increasing negative bias in the ELPD(z) estimate. This is because as we move
further away from the point (0, 0) the caliper will cover areas where the model has worse
fit than at (0, 0).
Figure 2 b) shows the performance of Expert 2 at the point z = (x1, x2) = (2, 0).
At this point Expert 2 fits the data poorly since it omits x1.
Increasing the caliper
width again leads to reduced variance, but now the bias in the ELPD(z) estimate will be
increasingly positive. This is because the majority of new observations captured by the
increasing caliper width will be from areas in Z where the model has better fit than at
the current point.

Local prediction pools
a) z = (0, 0)
b) z = (2, 0)
0.05
0.1
0.2
0.5
0.05
0.1
0.2
0.5
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
-0.15
-0.10
-0.05
0.00
0.05
Caliper width (ρ)
\
ELPD(z) −ELPD(z)
Figure 2: Sampling distribution of the errors in the estimate of local predictive ability of
Expert 2 by the caliper method at two points in Z.
The third step in creating a local prediction pool is aggregating the predictive distri-
butions of the experts based on their (estimated) local predictive ability. In our example,
the DM wants to make predictions at the two points z = (0, 0) and z = (2, 0). We
compare the performance of the DM with two reference methods: a pool with equal
weights, and the linear prediction pool of Geweke and Amisano (2011).
-2.3
-2.2
-2.1
-2.0
-1.9
-1.8
-1.7
DM pool
ρ = 0.05
DM pool
ρ = 0.1
DM pool
ρ = 0.5
DM pool
ρ = 50
Equal
weights
Linear
pool
ELPD(z)
Figure 3: Expected log predictive density for a new observations at z = (2, 0) for the
caliper method together with reference methods. Expectation is taken with
regards to the data-generating process in (13). (See the main text for details.)
At z = (0, 0) both models are equally misspecified, and make almost identical predic-
tions. As each expert makes more or less identical predictions, any linear combination of
their predictions will also be more or less identical. At z = (2, 0) Expert 1, which includes
x1, greatly outperforms Expert 2. The caliper method captures this, which translates into
markedly better predictions for a range of caliper widths.
If we keep increasing the caliper width we will eventually arrive at an estimate of local
predictive ability that is no longer local in any meaningful sense. For example, using the
data-generating process in this simulation, a caliper width of ρ = 50 will almost always
includes all previous observations. When this is the case and both of the experts have
the same global predictive ability, we observe the same polarizing behavior as that of
Bayesian posterior probabilities described in Yang and Zhu (2018). Since both models
are equally misspecified globally over Z, the difference in estimated predictive ability
follows a random walk and will not converge to zero. As the sample size increases for any
given sample, one of the models will therefore completely dominate the pool. Note that
this is only the case for natural scaling.

Local prediction pools
4 Applications
In the applications we will refer to the local pooling method described in Section 2 as a
local decision maker pool (local DM for short). We will also consider a pool that assigns
equal weights to all predictive distributions (equal weights) and the linear pool of Geweke
and Amisano (2011), which we will refer to as a global optimization-based pool (global
opt.), since it obtains its weights by optimizing the historical log scores over all of Z.
The caliper method works by subsetting the data set based on variables that the
decision maker believes that the predictive ability of the experts may vary over. This
suggests that we could extend the global optimization-based linear pool into a local pool
in a similar manner. To this end we introduce the local optimization-based linear pool
(local opt.), which works exactly as the pool in Geweke and Amisano (2011), except that
when optimizing the weights at time t, it only includes past predictions made within a
given caliper width of zt. If there are no past predictions over which to optimize, each
expert is given the same weight.
4.1 US macroeconomic forecasting
In our first applied example we use the framework developed in the previous sections to
forecast key macroeconomic time series in the US. The dataset used by the experts con-
sists of the seven US macroeconomic variables in Smets and Wouters (2007): quarterly
real GDP growth (gdp), quarterly inflation rate (tcpi), the federal funds rate (fed), quar-
terly real consumption growth, quarterly real investment growth, hours worked, and real
compensation per hour. These time series are transformed in accordance with Gustafsson
et al. (2023).
The decision maker is interested in predicting the three variables gdp, fed, and tcpi.
To aid her in this, the decision maker has access to experts in the form of predictive
distributions from a set of models: i) a Bayesian homoscedastic VAR(1) model estimated
on all seven variables, ii) a Bayesian VAR(1) model with stochastic volatility estimated
on all variables, iii) Bayesian Additive Regression Tree models (BART, Chipman et al.
(2010)) for each of gdp, fed, and tcpi as univariate response variables with one lag
of all seven macro variables as explanatory variables, and iv) a Bayesian VAR(1) model
with time-varying parameters and stochastic volatility for the three-dimensional response
vector with gdp, tcpi and fed. For each model class, we obtain the univariate one-step-
ahead predictive distribution for gdp, fed, and tcpi; this allows us to explore differences
in the local weighting schemes across the three variables.
When setting up her pooling space Z, the decision maker has access to all the variables
used by the experts. In addition, the decision maker has access to an additional pooling
variable in the form of ISM’s manufacturing purchasing managers’ index (pmi), which is
not used by any of the experts (Lahiri and Monokroussos, 2013). The data set includes 218
observations, 72 of which are used in the initial estimation of the experts’ models. Using
all eight variables to form Z is therefore not a good idea, as the DM would be estimating
a hypersurface in an eight-dimensional space based on roughly 150 observations. The
decision maker therefore only uses GDP growth, inflation, the federal funds rate, and
pmi to construct Z.
The decision maker uses the caliper method with natural scaling to estimate local
predictive ability in Z—for a version using the caliper method with discrimination, see
Appendix A. She continually updates the caliper width, ρ, at each time step by maximiz-

Local prediction pools
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
Caliper width (ρ)
a) Local DM pool.
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
fed
gdp
tcpi
b) Local opt. pool.
Figure 4: Dynamically selected caliper widths for the macroeconomic data.
ing the historical log predictive density score over all previous aggregate predictions. The
same method is used to dynamically select the caliper width of the local optimization-
based pool. The dynamically selected caliper widths are shown in Figure 4.
Table 1 displays the sum of out-of-sample log predictive scores for all the methods, and
Figure 5 shows the development of these log scores over time relative to the equal weights
method. All methods outperform equal weights by roughly the same amount when pre-
dicting gdp and fed. For tcpi, the local DM pool performs the best, outperforming the
local optimization-based pool with some margin. All aggregation methods outperform
the best individual experts. See Villani et al. (2009) for a discussion of how differences
in the log predictive scores can be loosely interpreted using Jeffreys’ scale of evidence for
log Bayes factors.
Figure 6 explains why the two local pools outperform the globally optimized pool for
tcpi by displaying the log predictive density evaluations over time for the four pooling
schemes and the individual experts. The figure shows that while the globally optimized
pool relies almost exclusively on the TVPSV model, which has the best performance over
the whole data set, the local pools correctly put greater weight on the BART model when
it performs well, and opts for a more equally weighted pool when BART predicts poorly.
It is important to emphasize that the time variation in the weights come from being at
different locations in Z over time.
Equal weights
Global opt.
Local opt.
Local DM
fed
34.4
51.9
51.7
52.8
gdp
-31.4
-28.9
-27.6
-28.2
tcpi
-20.4
-23.3
-19.5
-16.1
Table 1: Comparison of different pooling schemes. Sum of log predictive densities for
one-step-ahead quarterly forecasts of the three variables fed, gdp, and tcpi, for
the period 2010:Q1 to 2019:Q1. Bold numbers indicate the best method for each
variable.

Local prediction pools
c) tcpi
b) gdp
a) fed
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
0
0
-2
0
Log predictive density
Global opt.
Local DM
Local opt.
Figure 5: Cumulative log scores relative to equal weights of one-step-ahead quarterly
forecasts.

Local prediction pools
c) Local opt.
b) Global opt.
a) Local DM
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
Predictive density score
Global opt.
Local DM
Local opt.
BVAR
SVBVAR
BART
TVPSV
Figure 6: Predictive density scores of one-step-ahead, quarterly, predictions of tcpi.
Each subplot relates one of three pooling methods to the four experts.

Local prediction pools
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Caliper width (ρ)
Local DM
Local opt.
Figure 7: Dynamically selected caliper widths.
4.2 Bike rental prediction
In our second application we make one-step-ahead daily predictions of bike rentals using
the bike sharing data in Fanaee-T and Gama (2014). To help construct our predictions
we use three experts: i) a Bayesian linear regression model, ii) a BART model (Bayesian
additive regression trees), and iii) a Bayesian linear regression model with stochastic
volatility, as well as a set of variables to construct a pooling space.
The bike sharing data includes the daily number of rentals, our main variable of interest,
from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2012. The experts use several covariates related
to the weather, an indicator for season, and the number of bike rentals the previous day.
They also use indicators for workday and holiday, the latter being based on a list of
official US holidays.
As pooling variables we use humidity, wind-speed, and temperature from Fanaee-T
and Gama (2014), as well as a decision-maker specific variable which we will call family
holiday. The family holiday variable takes the value 1 on Thanksgiving and Christmas
(Eve and Day), and is included to represent the decision maker’s belief that there are
certain holidays that Americans spend with family, and so we would expect that bike
rentals follow a different pattern on these days. This variable is not included in the original
dataset Fanaee-T and Gama (2014) and is therefore not typically used in predictive
models for this dataset. The idea is that the DM believes that this variable can affect
the local relative predictive performance of the models and therefore wants to use it as
an additional pooling variable.
Accounting for the missed observations from taking lags, we have a total of 730 ob-
servations as 2012 was a leap year. We split these 730 observations into three batches.
The first batch, consisting of 200 observations, is used as training data for the experts
without any recording of predictions. The experts’ predictions on the subsequent batch
of 200 observations are then used to get initial estimates of the experts’ local predictive
abilities. We use the third and final batch of 330 observations for evaluating the aggre-
gate prediction from the local prediction pool, always updating the experts and the pool
weights as time progresses.
The decision maker uses the caliper method with natural scaling. Since the DM does
not have a strong a priori opinion about which values to select she runs through a selection
of values that she thinks are reasonable, and then selects the caliper width at each time
point that has historically yielded the best predictions for the local pool, as shown in
Figure 7. The same approach is used to select caliper widths for the local optimization
based pool.
Figure 8 shows cumulative log scores of the one-day-ahead predictions for all meth-
ods relative to the equal weights method. The global optimization-based pool initially

Local prediction pools
0
Mar
Apr
May
Jun
Jul
Aug
Sep
Oct
Nov
Dec
Log predictive density
Global opt.
Local DM
Local opt.
Figure 8: Cumulative log scores relative to equal weights for daily one-step ahead predic-
tions of bike rentals.
Equal weights
Global opt.
Local opt.
Local DM
93.2
123.1
137.8
125.8
Table 2: Comparison of different pooling schemes. Sum of log predictive densities for
one-step-ahead daily forecasts of bike rentals from February 1 to December 31.
performs similarly to the local pools, but as a greater number of past local predictions
become available the local pools start to outperform the global pool. The equal weights
scheme performs poorly. The totals from Figure 8 can be found in Table 2.
5 Conclusions
We have presented a framework for local prediction pools based on the Bayesian predic-
tive synthesis approach of Johnson and West (2018). The framework combines expert
predictive distribution locally by weighing experts based on their estimated past perfor-
mance under similar conditions—i.e. for similar values of the pooling variables—to the
ones at the present prediction. Viewing expert predictions as data (Lindley et al., 1979),
our framework can be viewed as an extension that allows us to incorporate, in a flexible
manner, the belief that the relevance of expert data points can change depending on the
conditions under which we are making our predictions (Savage, 1971).
We propose the caliper method as a simple, easy to interpret, estimator of local pre-
dictive performance. The workings of local pools and the caliper method is illustrated by
a simulated example, together with two empirical applications. The proposed local pools
are shown to outperform a pool with equal weights and the popular globally optimized
linear pool (Geweke and Amisano, 2011) in both applications.
Although our local prediction pools are shown to work well in both applications, we
would like to raise two points. First, as was noted by Savage (1971, p. 797), when we
subset data to only include observations that are relevant according to some criterion,
the amount of data needed will increase rapidly with the complexity of that criterion; as
the dimension of Z grows, so does the amount of predictions we need from each expert.
To reduce the amount of predictions needed and to get more robust local estimates,

Local prediction pools
the caliper method imposes a certain amount of smoothness over the pooling space by
averaging past predictive performance within the caliper.
Second, the parameters of
formal model experts are estimated globally using all data, which may corrupt what
would otherwise be a locally accurate expert. This is something that the decision maker’s
local weights can only partially correct for.
This last point will always be a problem when the parameters of the expert models
cannot feasibly be estimated jointly with the weights in the mixture, as is often the
case in applied work.
However, as estimating the model parameters and the mixing
weights jointly will result in more powerful pools, an interesting extension could be the
intermediate case where some experts are taken as fixed while some have parameters that
may be estimated jointly with the pooling weights. This would apply, for example, when
combining human expert predictions with predictions from simple statistical models.
The decision maker framework combined with the modeling of predictive ability as
something that varies over a pooling space opens the door to several extensions, such as
exploring different models for estimating local predictive ability and methods for pooling
conditional on local predictive ability estimates. Further, there is nothing that requires us
to estimate predictive ability using the same model for each expert. Using different models
for the experts would, for example, let us express beliefs that one expert’s predictive
ability varies more quickly over the pooling space.
Data availability statement
The macroeconomic data used in this article are publicly available, see Gustafsson et al.
(2023) for details. The bike share dataset from Fanaee-T and Gama (2014) is publicly
available at https://doi.org/10.24432/C5W894.
References
Adolfson, M., Andersson, M., Lind´e, J., Villani, M., and Vredin, A. (2007). Modern
Forecasting Models in Action: Improving Macroeconomic Analyses at Central Banks.
International Journal of Central Banking, 3(4):111–144.
Bates, J. M. and Granger, C. W. J. (1969). The Combination of Forecasts. Journal of
the Operations Research Society, 20(4):451–468.
Berk, R. H. (1966).
Limiting behavior of posterior distributions when the model is
incorrect. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 37(1):51–58.
Bernardo, J. M. and Smith, A. F. M. (1994). Bayesian Theory. John Wiley & Sons.
Billio, M., Casarin, R., Ravazzolo, F., and van Dijk, H. K. (2013). Time-varying com-
binations of predictive densities using nonlinear filtering. Journal of Econometrics,
177(2):213–232.
Casarin, R., Grassi, S., Ravazzolo, F., and Van Dijk, H. K. (2023). A flexible predictive
density combination for large financial data sets in regular and crisis periods. Journal
of Econometrics, page S0304407622002093.

Local prediction pools
Chipman, H. A., George, E. I., and McCulloch, R. E. (2010). BART: Bayesian additive
regression trees. The Annals of Applied Statistics, 4(1):266–298.
Clemen, R. T. (1989). Combining forecasts: A review and annotated bibliography. In-
ternational Journal of Forecasting, 5(4):559–583.
Del Negro, M., Hasegawa, R., and Schorfheide, F. (2014). Dynamic Prediction Pools: An
Investigation of Financial Frictions and Forecasting Performance. Journal of Econo-
metrics, 192(2):391–405.
Diaconis, P. and Zabell, S. L. (1982). Updating Subjective Probability. Journal of the
American Statistical Association, 77(380):822–830.
Fanaee-T, H. and Gama, J. (2014). Event labeling combining ensemble detectors and
background knowledge. Progress in Artificial Intelligence, 2(2-3):113–127.
Fr¨uhwirth-Schnatter, S. (2006). Finite mixture and Markov switching models. Springer
Verlag.
Gelman, A., Hwang, J., and Vehtari, A. (2014). Understanding predictive information
criteria for Bayesian models. Statistics and Computing, 24(6):997–1016.
Genest, C. and Zidek, J. V. (1986). Combining Probability Distributions: A Critique
and an Annotated Bibliography. Statistical Science, 1(1):114–135.
Geweke, J. and Amisano, G. (2011). Optimal prediction pools. Journal of Econometrics,
164(1):130–141.
Gustafsson, O., Villani, M., and Stockhammar, P. (2023). Bayesian optimization of hyper-
parameters from noisy marginal likelihood estimates. Journal of Applied Econometrics,
38(4):577–595.
Hall, S. and Mitchell, J. (2007). Combining density forecasts. International Journal of
Forecasting, 23(1):1–13.
Johnson, M. C. and West, M. (2018). Bayesian Predictive Synthesis: Forecast Calibration
and Combination. Preprint. arXiv: 1803.01984.
Kapetanios, G., Mitchell, J., Price, S., and Fawcett, N. (2015).
Generalised density
forecast combinations. Journal of Econometrics, 188(1):150–165.
Kjellberg, D. and Villani, M. (2010). The Riksbank’s communication of macroeconomic
uncertainty. Economic Review, 1(2010):2–49.
Lahiri, K. and Monokroussos, G. (2013). Nowcasting US GDP: The role of ISM business
surveys. International Journal of Forecasting, 29(4):644–658.
Li, L., Kang, Y., and Li, F. (2022). Bayesian forecast combination using time-varying
features. International Journal of Forecasting, page S0169207022000930.
Lindley, D. V., Tversky, A., and Brown, R. V. (1979). On the Reconciliation of Probability
Assessments. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society: Series A (General), 142(2):146–
180.

Local prediction pools
McAlinn, K. (2021). Mixed-Frequency Bayesian Predictive Synthesis for Economic Now-
casting. Journal of the Royal Statistical Society Series C: Applied Statistics, 70(5):1143–
1163.
McAlinn, K., Aastveit, K. A., Nakajima, J., and West, M. (2020). Multivariate Bayesian
Predictive Synthesis in Macroeconomic Forecasting. Journal of the American Statistical
Association, 115(531):1092–1110.
Savage, L. J. (1971). Elicitation of Personal Probabilities and Expectations. Journal of
the American Statistical Association, 66(336):783–801.
Smets, F. and Wouters, R. (2007).
Shocks and Frictions in US Business Cycles: A
Bayesian DSGE Approach. American Economic Review, 97(3):586–606.
Villani, M., Kohn, R., and Giordani, P. (2009).
Regression density estimation using
smooth adaptive Gaussian mixtures. Journal of Econometrics, 153(2):155–173.
West, M. (1992). Modelling Agent Forecast Distributions. Journal of the Royal Statistical
Society: Series B (Statistical Methodology), 54(2):553–567.
Winkler, R. L. (1981). Combining Probability Distributions from Dependent Information
Sources. Management Science, 27(4):479–488.
Wolpert, D. H. (1992). Stacked generalization. Neural Networks, 5(2):241–259.
Yang, Z. and Zhu, T. (2018). Bayesian selection of misspecified models is overconfident
and may cause spurious posterior probabilities for phylogenetic trees. Proceedings of
the National Academy of Sciences, 115(8):1854–1859.
Yao, Y., Pirˇs, G., Vehtari, A., and Gelman, A. (2021). Bayesian Hierarchical Stacking:
Some Models Are (Somewhere) Useful. Bayesian Analysis. Advance online publication.
doi:10.1214/21-BA1287.
Yao, Y., Vehtari, A., Simpson, D., and Gelman, A. (2018). Using Stacking to Average
Bayesian Predictive Distributions (with Discussion). Bayesian Analysis, 13(3):917–
1007.

Local prediction pools
Appendix A
This appendix implements the caliper method with discrimination on the US macroe-
conomic data used in Section 4.1. As discussed in Section 3.1, the caliper method with
natural scaling potentially introduces tension in the selection of the caliper width ρ;
changing the caliper width not only determines how local the estimate of predictive abil-
ity is, but also determines the number of observations this estimate is based on, which in
turn decides how strong the discrimination between experts is.
To be able to tune the locality and the degree of discrimination separately, the caliper
method with discrimination introduces a second parameter τ. Estimation of local pre-
dictive ability at a point z then proceeds by first calculating the mean log score within
the caliper width ρ of that point, and then multiplying this estimate by τ. A small value
of τ will lead to pooled predictions close to equal weights, and a large value of τ will lead
to a local version of model selection.
In order to use the caliper method with discrimination, the decision maker needs to
select values of both ρ and τ. In this appendix, we optimize based on historic data; at
each time point t, the decision maker selects values of τ and ρ that optimizes the historical
performance of the pool over a grid of values of (τ, ρ). The addition of one more parameter
to this optimization step greatly increases the computational requirements, so to keep
things viable we use a sparse grid where ρ = 0, 0.1, . . . , 5, and τ = 1, 2, . . . , 100, 1000.
The addition of 1000 at the end of values for τ is included so that the maximum value
of τ leads to something close to model selection, without having to optimize over an
unreasonable number of values. We will refer to the caliper method with discrimination
as Local DM(ˆρ, ˆτ), and the version with natural scaling as Local DM(ˆρ).
Optimal historical joint values for ρ and τ can be found in Table 3.
Cumulative
log scores for Local DM(τ)∗can be found in Figure 9. Local DM(τ)∗performs most
similarly to, but generally better than, the local optimal pool. This is somewhat to be
expected, as both methods can combine a high degree of both discrimination between
experts and locality. As can be seen in Table 4, Local DM(ˆρ, ˆτ)∗performs better than
Local DM(ˆρ, ˆτ).

Local prediction pools
fed
gdp
tcpi
ρ
τ
ρ
τ
ρ
τ
0.70
2.50
1.00
0.70
2.50
1.10
0.70
2.50
0.10
0.70
2.50
0.20
0.70
2.30
0.40
1.00
1.50
1.00
1.00
1.50
1.00
1.00
1.50
1.00
1.00
1.50
0.30
1.00
1.50
1.00
0.90
1.50
1.00
1.00
2.30
1.00
0.90
2.30
1.10
0.90
2.30
1.10
1.00
2.30
1.10
1.00
2.30
1.10
0.90
2.30
1.10
4.80
2.30
1.10
4.80
2.30
1.10
4.80
2.30
1.10
4.80
2.30
0.30
4.80
2.30
0.30
4.80
2.30
0.30
4.80
2.30
0.30
4.80
2.30
0.40
4.80
2.30
0.40
4.80
2.30
0.40
4.80
2.30
0.40
4.80
2.30
0.40
4.80
1.70
0.40
4.80
1.70
0.40
4.80
1.70
0.40
4.80
1.70
0.40
4.80
1.70
0.40
4.80
1.70
0.50
4.80
1.70
0.50
4.80
0.80
0.50
Table 3: Dynamically selected caliper widths (ρ) and discrimination values (τ) for the
macroeconomic data. The optimal value of τ is selected from 1, 2, . . . , 100, 1000,
and ρ is selected from 0, 0.1, . . . , 5.
Equal weights
Global opt.
Local opt.
Local DM(ˆρ)
Local DM(ˆρ, ˆτ)
fed
34.4
51.9
51.7
52.8
51.6
gdp
-31.4
-28.9
-27.6
-28.2
-27.5
tcpi
-20.4
-23.3
-19.5
-16.1
-19.0
Table 4: Comparison of different pooling schemes. Sum of log predictive densities for
one-step-ahead quarterly forecasts of the three variables fed, gdp, and tcpi, for
the period 2010:Q1 to 2019:Q1. Bold numbers indicate the best method for each
variable.

Local prediction pools
c) tcpi
b) gdp
a) fed
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
2010Q1
2013Q1
2016Q1
2019Q1
0
0
-2
0
Global opt.
Local DM(ˆρ, ˆτ)
Local DM(ˆρ)
Local opt.
Figure 9: Cumulative log scores relative to equal weights of one-step-ahead quarterly
forecasts.