Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Haiqing Zhu 1 Alexander Soen 1 2 Yun Kuen Cheung 1 Lexing Xie 1
Abstract
We examine two types of binary betting markets,
whose primary goal is for profit (such as sports
gambling) or to gain information (such as predic-
tion markets). We articulate the interplay between
belief and price-setting to analyse both types of
markets, and show that the goals of maximising
bookmaker profit and eliciting information are
fundamentally incompatible. A key insight is
that profit hinges on the deviation between (the
distribution of) bettor and true beliefs, and that
heavier tails in bettor belief distribution imply
higher profit.
Our algorithmic contribution is
to introduce online learning methods for price-
setting. Traditionally bookmakers update their
prices rather infrequently, we present two algo-
rithms that guide price updates upon seeing each
bet, assuming very little of bettor belief distri-
butions. The online pricing algorithm achieves
stochastic regret of O(
вҲҡ
T) against the worst lo-
cal maximum, or O(вҲҡT log T) with high prob-
ability against the global maximum under fair
odds. More broadly, the inherent trade-off be-
tween profit and information-seeking in binary
betting may inspire new understandings of large-
scale multi-agent behaviour.
1. Introduction
Betting on future events is interesting for at least two rea-
sons: to elicit and aggregate belief as done in online predic-
tion markets, or to profit from correct forecasts as done in
traditional betting market. There is a vast (albeit separate)
literature about prediction and betting markets. A closer
examination prompts us to ask three questions. Can one
describe prediction market and traditional betting market
using a shared mathematical model? Given the many em-
1School of Computing, The Australian National University,
Canberra, Australia 2RIKEN Center for Advanced Intelligence
Project, Tokyo, Japan. Correspondence to:
<{haiqing.zhu,
alexander.soen, yunkuen.cheung, lexing.xie}@anu.edu.au>.
Proceedings of the 41 st International Conference on Machine
Learning, Vienna, Austria. PMLR 235, 2024. Copyright 2024 by
the author(s).
pirical studies on bettor and bookmaker strategies in betting
markets, what is a theoretical model for setting the book?
Also, can prediction-market-style online algorithms help
profit-oriented bookmakers?
Related work.
Prediction markets (Wolfers & Zitzewitz,
2006) have had great algorithmic success as information ag-
gregators. Early development focused on how market maker
used proper scoring rule to reward forecasters and encour-
age honest predictions (Brier, 1950; Good, 1952; McCarthy,
1956; Savage, 1971; Gneiting & Raftery, 2007). A landmark
result is the automated market maker (Hanson, 2007) using
the logarithmic market scoring rule (LMSR). The inherent
connection of LMSR to online optimisation led to various
generalisations of LMSR in algorithms and market struc-
tures (Chen & Pennock, 2007; Chen et al., 2008; Agrawal
et al., 2008; Guo & Pennock, 2009; Chen & Vaughan, 2010;
Agrawal et al., 2011; Abernethy et al., 2013; Frongillo et al.,
2012; Othman et al., 2013), and convergence analyses of
the relevant dynamic processes (Frongillo & Reid, 2015; Yu
et al., 2022b).
For betting markets, Kelly betting (Kelly, 1956; Rotando
& Thorp, 1992; Busseti et al., 2016) is a prominent model
and applicable to different domains (Thorp, 2008). Levitt
(2004)вҖҷs empirical work on bookmaker strategy identified
that better prediction ability and their systematic exploita-
tion of bettor biases as two main drivers of bookmakersвҖҷ
profit. More recently, Yu et al. (2022a) characterised the
uniqueness of the equilibrium of the betting market model
under the special case that the odds are fair and no profit
is earned. Compared to the above, our work provides the-
oretical explanations of LevittвҖҷs findings based on a more
general online betting model. Furthermore, we show that
bookmakers can earn higher profit not only by exploiting
bettor biases, but also by exploiting polarised bettor belief
distributions that have heavy tails. Remarkably, we show
that such exploitation is not only feasible, but can be done
in an online setting with little knowledge of bettor belief
distribution beforehand.
Our profit-maximisation problem is distinct from other on-
line learning problems. For example, multi-armed ban-
dits (Thompson, 1933; Slivkins et al., 2019; Lattimore &
SzepesvВҙari, 2020) optimise profit for the (repeating) bettor
when the rate of return is unknown, whereas our problem
arXiv:2406.04062v1  [cs.GT]  6 Jun 2024

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Table 1. An overview of market settings and key quantities in on-
line learning. Our contributions are highlighted in green. вҲ—with
high probability. # the algorithm is due to (Frongillo et al., 2012).
вҖ  captures local maxima and has stronger assumptions.
Market Setting
Market Properties
Goal
Update
Belief?
Fair
odds?
Max
Profit
Online
Learning
Regret
Profit
N
N
> 0
SA Sec 4
O(
вҲҡ
T)вҖ 
Y
> 0
FTL Sec 5
O(вҲҡT log T)вҲ—
Prediction
Y
Y
= 0
Mirror Descent#
O(вҲҡT log T)вҲ—
maximises the bookmaker profit when bettor belief distribu-
tion is unknown. The unknown belief distribution constitute
the uncertain component in both the objective function and
its gradient вҖ“ but noisy estimates of both are used in our
algorithms. Focusing on gradient information, one could
think of this problem as between Online Convex Optimisa-
tion (Hazan et al., 2016) with known gradient and Bandit
Convex Optimisation problems (Hazan & Levy, 2014; Lat-
timore, 2024) with no gradient available. Additionally, the
optimisation objective here is also uncertain and generally
non-convex.
Our contributions.
We consider markets betting on bi-
nary outcomes. Table 1 summarises several key concerns.
Two choices determine the market setting: whether the
bookmaker aims to update their own belief вҖ“ No (N) for
traditional betting, and Yes (Y) for prediction markets; and
whether prices for the two outcomes are fair. Here fair
odds/prices Y means the implied event probabilities sum to
one, and unfair odds N means the bookmaker ignore this con-
straint to ensure profit. Traditional betting markets can seek
to maximise profit with either fair or unfair odds, whereas
prediction market seek to aggregate belief and invariably
uses fair odds tied to the estimates of the event probability.
The setting of belief update under unfair odds has contra-
dictory effects вҖ“ namely, discouraging some bettor from
participating but trying to elicit their belief вҖ“ and therefore
is out of scope from this (and othersвҖҷ) work. This work as-
sumes the common Kelly model for bettor behaviour, which
allows us to focus on the properties and strategies of the
bookmaker.
Our first set of results describe the conflict between profit
and prediction (in Sections 2 and 3). We show that book-
makers can expect positive profit in both fair and unfair
odds settings. In particular, the bookmaker setting a price
to exploit the difference between the bettorsвҖҷ average belief
and their own will lead to profit. On the other hand, when
the bookmaker set their own belief to match the bettorsвҖҷ
average belief, the setting turns into a prediction market
with maximum profit being zero. Moreover, we show that
second order stochastic dominance relations across bettor
belief distributions implies the same ordering in profit вҖ“ the
bookmaker can obtain more profit from heavier tails of the
distributions. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first
formal result on bookmaker profit under unfair odds.
The next contribution is to introduce online learning to book-
making, resulting in two algorithms that optimise profit.
Algorithm 1 (Section 4) is a stochastic approximation al-
gorithm (Mertikopoulos et al., 2020) to find optimal prices
with unfair odds. It does so with local gradient updates,
and achieves a regret of O(
вҲҡ
T) against a local maximum.
Algorithm 2 (Section 5) is a Follow the Leader (Hazan et al.,
2016)-type algorithm in the fair odds setting. It computes a
running estimate of average bettor belief and uses the first-
order analytical solution in the fair odds setting to converge
to globally optimal prices. We observe both algorithms
outperform the respective risk-balancing and logarithmic
market scoring baselines in empirical simulations, and are
robust to different initialisations (Section 6).
2. Betting Markets
Consider a betting market on binary outcomes, called A
and B1. A bookmaker sets a price a for A and b for B, with
a, b вҲҲ(0, 1] , respectively2. A bettor bets an amount v on
either outcome. If they lose, v goes to the bookmaker; if
they win, v/a or v/b is paid out to the bettor.
Denote the bookmakerвҖҷs estimate of the underlying prob-
ability of event A as g.If the bookmaker and the bettors
all took g as their beliefs that A occurs, then setting prices
a = g and b = 1 вҲ’g would clear the market, with no
one expecting to make a profit вҖ“ but this setting is neither
realistic nor interesting. The rest of this section considers
the bettor-bookmaker dynamic as a game, and addresses the
following questions. If the individual belief of the t-th bettor
of A is pt вҲҲ[0, 1], then how much would they bet given the
prices (a, b)? Given such utility-maximizing bettors, what
is the expected profit for the bookmaker?
A table of key notation is presented in Appendix A. Proofs
and additional expositions are deferred to the appendix.
2.1. Kelly bettors and their optimal strategies
We consider Kelly bettors (Kelly, 1956), indexed sequen-
tially by t вҲҲ{1, . . . , T}. Each bettor possesses an initial
1We choose to focus on pre-determined binary outcomes in this
work, e.g. home team winning in a sporting event. Such setting is
commonly used in prediction markets (Beygelzimer et al., 2012;
Frongillo et al., 2012; Wolfers & Zitzewitz, 2006). We assume
bookmakers are setting the price for A and B but not defining the
event, such as the point spread at which home team winning (Levitt,
2004). We leave non-binary betting markets as future work.
2Here a, b represent price for unit return. Another commonly
used, and equivalent, representation is to express them in odds,
which are 1/a and 1/b, respectively.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
wealth wt and has an underlying belief pt that event A will
occur, implying that belief for event B is qt
.= 1 вҲ’pt.
A Kelly bettor bets an amount vt that maximises a utility
representing the expected logarithm of their wealth,
vt
.= arg max
v : vвүҘ0

ПҶa
t (v) вҲЁПҶb
t(v)
	
.
(1)
Here ПҶa
t (v) and ПҶb
t(v) are the expected log wealth after
bettor t bets on event A or B, respectively. The inner max
(via symbol вҲЁ) indicate which side to bet on, while the outer
max is over the amount of the bet.
ПҶa
t (v) = pt log

wt + 1 вҲ’a
a
v

+ qt log(wt вҲ’v);
ПҶb
t(v) = qt log

wt + 1 вҲ’b
b
v

+ pt log(wt вҲ’v).
The first term in utility function ПҶa
t is the probability of A
happening pt times the log of the resulting wealth, with the
profit from the win being 1вҲ’a
a v. The second term is the
probability of B happening qt times the log of initial wealth
wt subtracting the loss v. Similarly for utility ПҶb
t w.r.t. event
B. Eq. (2) contains the analytic solution for Problem (1)
where the first case corresponds betting on A and the second
case corresponds to betting on B. See Appendix G for a
derivation and an illustration.
vt =
пЈұ
пЈҙ
пЈІ
пЈҙ
пЈі
ptвҲ’a
1вҲ’a В· wt,
if pt > a;
0,
if 1 вҲ’b вүӨpt вүӨa;
qtвҲ’b
1вҲ’b В· wt,
if qt > b.
(2)
The Kelly betting model is commonly applied in various
fields, including sports betting and gambling (Thorp, 2008),
portfolio management (Thorp, 1975), and stock market
(Rotando & Thorp, 1992). It is proven to be asymptotically
optimal such that it maximises the long-term compounded
returns (Kelly, 1956; Algoet & Cover, 1988; Cover, 1999) .
Despite its effectiveness, the Kelly betting approach faces
criticism for being overly aggressive (Busseti et al., 2016)
or, conversely, too conservative (Hsieh et al., 2016). To
address these issues, various alternative betting strategies
have been proposed, such as fractional (Davis & Lleo, 2013)
and distributional robust (Sun & Boyd, 2018) Kelly and
modern portfolio theory (Markowitz, 1952). Our model
is applicable for fractional Kelly strategy by replacing the
wealth distribution with a joint distribution of wealth and
fractions. Detailed analysis of these alternative strategies is
left for future research.
2.2. The bookmaker: maximising expected profit
Key moderation signals for betting markets are the prices
(a, b), set by the bookmaker. The setting when a + b = 1
is called fair in prices and odds (Wikipedia Contributors,
2024)3; the setting a + b > 1 is commonly used to guar-
antee bookmaker profits. The amount a + b вҲ’1 is called
overround or bookmaker margin. Given prices (a, b) and
a bookmakerвҖҷs belief g of event A happening, one can cal-
culate their expected profit ut(a, b) for a single bettor with
unit wealth (wt = 1), where the expectation is taken over
bettor belief pt:
ut(a, b)
.=
1 вҲ’g
1 вҲ’a вҲ’g
a

В· E [(pt вҲ’a)+]
+

g
1 вҲ’b вҲ’1 вҲ’g
b

В· E [(qt вҲ’b)+] .
(3)
Derivation of Eq. (3) is in Appendix H, which involves
breaking down expected payin minus payout according to
event A or B actually happening using Eq. (2). For both
terms in Eq. (3) to be non-negative, the bookmaker would set
a вҲҲ[g, 1] and b вҲҲ[1 вҲ’g, 1]. Eq. (3) is inherently connected
to the notion of conditional value-at-risk (CVaR) (Rock-
afellar et al., 2000) in financial markets due to both terms
being functions of conditional expectations w.r.t. the tails of
belief distributions. An exposition of which is presented in
Appendix B. Note that Eq. (3) does not use the true event
probability of A, but only the bookmakerвҖҷs belief g, which
leads to the following discussion.
The bookmakerвҖҷs belief versus event probabilities.
g is
a key quantity that influences the expected profit. In real-
world markets such as sports betting, bookmaker belief is
known to be at least as close to the true probability as the
most competent bettor (Levitt, 2004). Nonetheless, g is not
the true probability of event A. Eq. (3) is still meaningful
because it is an expectation from the bookmakerвҖҷs perspec-
tive. Maximising Eq. (3) is also theoretically and practically
sound, because even when the bookmakerвҖҷs belief is uncer-
tain, i.e., in the form of an interval (gвҲ’, g+) enclosing the
ground-truth probability, we show that bookmaker profit
under true event probability is still positive, and that algo-
rithms proposed in Section 4 can maximise its lower bound
with trivial changes to incorporate gвҲ’, g+. Details of this
imprecise belief lemma are in Appendix C.
Profit under fair odds and prediction market.
When
a + b = 1, the expected profit function Eq. (3) simplifies to
ut(a, 1 вҲ’a) = вҲ’(a вҲ’g)(a вҲ’E [pt])
a(1 вҲ’a)
.
(4)
Notice that the denominator is positive. Thus, the book-
maker makes a profit iff a is strictly between g and E [pt].
In other words, the bookmakerвҖҷs profit hinges on the aggre-
gated bettor opinion deviating from their own belief g.
3a+b < 1 allows arbitrage вҖ“ guaranteed profit for bettors plac-
ing bets on both sides simultaneously вҖ“ and hence not applicable.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
When the bookmakerвҖҷs belief coincides with the aggre-
gated bettor opinion, or g = E [pt] under fair odds, the
optimal market price for the bookmaker becomes exactly
aвӢҶ= g, leading to an expected profit of zero вҖ“ i.e., the
price elucidates the mean belief of bettors. This includes
the setting of prediction markets (Beygelzimer et al., 2012;
Wolfers & Zitzewitz, 2006). This is surprising as the un-
derlying dynamics of prediction markets optimise a util-
ity function entirely different from the average profits. In-
deed, the implicit utility function of the prediction market is
a 7вҶ’вҲ’KL(E [pt] вҲҘa) (Frongillo et al., 2012, Corollary 1),
which directly corresponds to information elucidation.
3. Equilibria in Betting Markets
Notice that Eq. (2) depicts the behaviours of bettors when
they maximise their own utility; and Eq. (3) is the book-
makerвҖҷs possible utility when bettors act in this optimal
manner. A natural question arises of whether there exists an
equilibrium state where both the bettors and bookmakerвҖҷs
utility are maximised by a pair of prices (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) and invest-
ments vt (for all t вҲҲ{1, . . . , T}).
To consider this question, we first define the bookmakerвҖҷs to-
tal utility over all bettors {1, . . . , T}. This is simply defined
as the sum of Eq. (3) weighted by expected wealth/budget
of each bettor:
u1:T (a, b)
.=
T
X
t=1
ut(a, b) В· E [wt] .
(5)
Here, we are using the assumption that the wealth wt and
belief pt distributions for bettors are independent. We fur-
ther assume the p.d.f. of these distribution is differentiable
almost everywhere. The function u1:T in Eq. (6) is generally
non-concave when a + b > 1 (via Eq. (3)).
This utility function encodes a two-stage Stackelberg game
(Von Stackelberg, 1934) between the bookmaker and the
bettors. Indeed, with the knowledge that the bettors make
their optimal response simultaneously, the bookmaker (as
the Stackelberg leader) can make a pricing decision based
on Eq. (5). When the bookmaker makes an optimal pricing,
a Stackelberg equilibrium is achieved.
Definition 3.1. A Stackelberg equilibrium is achieved when
the bettor with utility functions ПҶaвӢҶand ПҶbвӢҶbets optimally
with wager from Eq. (1) and the bookmaker sets the price to
maximise the expected profit over a set of bettors assuming
the bettors bet optimally
(aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) =
arg max
(a,b): a+bвүҘ1
u1:T (a, b).
(6)
This type of equilibria can be categorised as Nash equilibria,
as each playerвҖҷs strategy is optimal given the decisions of
others. It should be noted that, in general, the equilibria
we consider differs from the typical market equilibrium in
economics (Arrow & Debreu, 1954), where supply equals
demand. There is a special case the types of equilibria are
equivalent in binary prediction market with fair odds, where
marginal utility maximisation clears the market (Beygelz-
imer et al., 2012).
The Stackelberg equilibrium is achieved as long as the ex-
pected profit of the bookmaker is maximised since the Kelly
betting rule Eq. (1) has analytical solutions vt for each bet-
tor. We note that such equilibrium is unique for common
distributions of bettorsвҖҷ beliefs, see Appendix D for more
details. Lemma 3.2 establishes the existence of a Stackel-
berg equilibria and Lemma 3.3 shows that such equilibria
will deviate from the bookmakerвҖҷs belief g.
Lemma 3.2. For any fixed T, the profit function u1:T in
Eq. (6) is upper-bounded, and it admits at least one max-
imiser (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) вҲҲ(0, 1)2.
Lemma 3.3. Suppose the bettor belief distribution f(x) >
0 for all x вҲҲ(0, 1), then for prices with non-zero overround
a + b > 1, all maximisers (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) of profit satisfies
1 вҲ’bвӢҶ< g < aвӢҶ.
The combination of Lemmas 3.2 and 3.3 clarifies the claim
that the optimal prices, without fair odds, must necessarily
deviate from the bookmakerвҖҷs belief, which can be used to
create a вҖңhouse edgeвҖқ in the prices. Proposition 3.4 presents
a lower-bound of profit with the belief deviation between
the bookmaker and the bettors.
Proposition 3.4. Let uвӢҶdenote the maximum utility corre-
sponding to Eq. (6). Then uвӢҶвүҘ(g вҲ’E [pt])2.
Proposition 3.4 and Section 2.2 discussed the effect of mean
bettor belief E [pt], the rest of this section establishes that
a larger second-order deviation (or more diversity in bettor
beliefs) will result in a larger profit. We first define second-
order stochastic dominance (SOSD), a well-established con-
cept in economics, to formally describe bettor diversity.
Definition 3.5 (Dentcheva & Ruszczynski (2003, Definition
2.1)). Let F1 and F2 be c.d.f.s over the interval (0, 1). F1
is SOSD over F2 if and only if S1(Z) < S2(Z) for all
Z вҲҲ(0, 1) and S1(1) = S2(1), where
Si(Z) =
Z Z
0
Fi(z) dz,
i вҲҲ{1, 2}.
The following shows that ordering belief distributions by
SOSD implies the same order in the expected profits.
Proposition 3.6. Fixing g, let u1, u2 be profit functions
Eq. (3) using preference distributions F1, F2, respectively.
Assume the p.d.f.вҖҷs f1, f2 satisfy supp(f1) = supp(f2) =

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
p
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
f(p)
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
a
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
b
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
Figure 1. Left:
Probability density function f0.75,0.25,0.1(p).
Right: Profit function, with profit-maximising prices (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) =
(0.70710, 0.63395) marked by the green point.
Table 2. Range of (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) for different values of m.
m
range of вҲҶ1, вҲҶ2
range of aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ
0.55
(0 , 0.05]
(0.52506 , 0.53353)
0.65
(0 , 0.15]
(0.57677 , 0.60608)
0.75
(0 , 0.25]
(0.63395 , 0.70710)
0.85
(0 , 0.15]
(0.70420 , 0.70710)
[0, 1]. If F1 is SOSD over F2, then for any pair of prices
a вҲҲ(g, 1) and b вҲҲ(1 вҲ’g, 1), we have
u1(a, b) < u2(a, b);
uвӢҶ
1 < uвӢҶ
2,
where uвӢҶ
1 = maxa,b u1(a, b) and uвӢҶ
2 = maxa,b u2(a, b).
Proposition 3.6 matches the intuition that bookmakers can
make more profit by exploiting stubborn bettors on both
ends of the preference spectrum, i.e., when the variance is
larger or when the distribution has heavier tails.
Example: Profit maximisation and prediction aggrega-
tion are incompatible.
We construct a family of belief
distributions whose means are all 0.5, each parameterised by
m, вҲҶ1, вҲҶ2. We assume the bookmakerвҖҷs belief is g = 0.5
too. We refer to 0.5 as the вҖңcommon beliefвҖқ. The parameter
m = E [pt | pt вүҘ0.5] lies between 0.5 and 1. By design,
E [pt | pt < 0.5] = 1 вҲ’m. When m is larger, the distribu-
tion is more polarised. The parameter вҲҶ1, вҲҶ2 lie between
0 and min{m вҲ’0.5, 1 вҲ’m}, which represent how spread
the distribution is over the regions pt вүҘ0.5 and pt < 0.5
respectively. The distribution has the following p.d.f.:
fm,вҲҶ1,вҲҶ2(p) =
пЈұ
пЈҙ
пЈІ
пЈҙ
пЈі
4вҲҶ1 ,
if p вҲҲm Вұ вҲҶ1;
4вҲҶ2 ,
if p вҲҲ1 вҲ’m Вұ вҲҶ2;
0,
otherwise.
Under such belief distribution, the expected profit Eq. (3)
admits a unique maximizer (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ). For several values
of m, we compute the possible range of aвӢҶand bвӢҶwhen
вҲҶ1, вҲҶ2 vary. The result is summarised in Table 2, with its
derivation and explanation given in Appendix E.
For all values of m in the table, the range of aвӢҶand bвӢҶ
does not include the common belief. Furthermore, as the
polarisation parameter m increases, aвӢҶ, bвӢҶcan become as
large as 0.70710, which is 41.4% more than the common
belief. The prices do not give useful indication of where the
common belief locates.
When вҲҶ1, вҲҶ2 are different, we may have skewed prices. In
Fig. 1, we consider the case m = 0.75, вҲҶ1 = 0.25 and
вҲҶ2 = 0.1. The prices are aвӢҶ= 0.70710 and bвӢҶ= 0.63395,
which have a relative difference of 11.5%. Consequently,
even the prices after normalization, (
aвӢҶ
aвӢҶ+bвӢҶ,
bвӢҶ
aвӢҶ+bвӢҶ), do not
give an accurate indication of the common belief.
With prices (aвҲ—, bвҲ—) maximising profit, a natural question is
вҖңhow to find themвҖқ? The online setting sets the stage for an
answer, however, there is a subtle (but important) difference
in bettor and bookmaker behavior. Bettors approaching the
market at different times potentially face different prices
updated by the bookmaker, where bettors behave in accor-
dance to maximising their expected utility (in the Kelly
sense) given the currently available price. We present online
algorithms to set the book in the next two sections.
4. Online Learning under Unfair Odds
Setting.
We aim to find an optimal prices series (at, bt)
in an online learning setting. Bettors t вҲҲ{1, . . . , T} arrive
sequentially, each making a bet in response to the current
prices (at, bt). We assume that the bettorsвҖҷ belief distribu-
tions are i.i.d., and denote the p.d.f. and c.d.f. of their belief
distributions as f and F respectively. The size of each bet
vt вүҘ0 in dollars / wealth and the side taken (either A or B)
are visible to bookmaker to update prices to (at+1, bt+1).
The bookmaker aims to maximise an online version of their
own expected profit with the price series
u1:t(a1:t, b1:t)
.=
t
X
П„=1
ut(aП„, bП„) В· E [wП„] .
(7)
The bookmaker knows neither bettor belief pt nor its dis-
tribution f(p) a-priori, but it will gather information as the
bets come in. We assume that bookmaker has an estimate
of the average wealth of bettors W t вүҲE [wt], which can be
available via, e.g., the online wallet of bettor t on a betting
platform or the average behaviour among a set of bettors.
We estimate the belief of bettor t by:
bpt =
пЈұ
пЈІ
пЈі
at + (1 вҲ’at) В·
vt
W t ,
if the bet is on A;
(1 вҲ’bt) В·

1 вҲ’
vt
W t

,
if the bet is on B.
(8)
As the bettors are Kelly Bettors, by Eq. (2), bpt is an unbiased
estimator of E [pt] when W t = E [wt]. However, the esti-

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
mates bpt may not necessarily lie in [0, 1]. To ensure that bpt
is a valid probability, we can either assume bet size vt вүӨW t
(Theorem 4.3), or вҖңclipвҖқ the value of bpt to a subinterval of
[0, 1] as in the fair odds setting (Section 5).
Stochastic Approximation (SA).
The profit function
Eq. (3) is non-concave in general, which presents a chal-
lenge in finding the optimal prices. One might want to
consider utilising general first-order optimisation methods,
e.g., gradient descent. However, it is still challenging to
directly apply these methods as the gradients вҲҮut(a, b) rely
on the tail expectations, e.g., estimating the c.d.f. F(a) over
a variety of prices a. Nevertheless, the first-order optimal-
ity conditions of ut(a, b) will become useful in deriving an
algorithm for online profit maximisation.
Theorem 4.1. The first-order optimality condition could be
reformulated as
(
ОҘR(a)
.= G(a) + a вҲ’E [pt | pt вүҘa] = 0;
ОҘL(b)
.= G(b) + b вҲ’E [pt | pt вүӨ1 вҲ’b] = 0,
(9)
where G(x) = x(1 вҲ’x)(x вҲ’g)/(x2 вҲ’2gx + g).
Eq. (9) describes potential local maxima вҖ“ finding optimal
prices is equivalent to a stochastic root-finding problem.
Similar problems have been extensively studied and can be
efficiently solved via stochastic approximation (SA) algo-
rithms (Robbins & Monro, 1951).
Definition 4.2 (Robbins & Monro (1951)). For some twice
differentiable function h, a stochastic approximation process
is a process (Xt)tвҲҲN adapted to the filtration (Ft)tвҲҲN that
admits the following form
Xt+1 = Xt вҲ’О·t+1(h(Xt) + Mt+1),
where (Mt)tвҲҲN is a random noise process satisfying
E [Mt+1 | Ft] = 0, and the sequence of step sizes (О·t)tвҲҲN
satisfies P
tвҲҲN О·t = вҲһand P
tвҲҲN О·2
t < вҲһ. In addition,
h(Xt) is uniformly bounded over t вҲҲN.
A special case of the SA algorithm is when the function h
in Definition 4.2 corresponds to an unbiased estimator of
a functionвҖҷs gradient. Without random noise, i.e. Mt = 0
over all t, the process becomes stochastic gradient descent
(SGD) (Robbins & Monro, 1951; Bottou et al., 2018). When
the random noise is set to be sampled from a standard Gaus-
sian, the process becomes stochastic gradient Langevin dy-
namics (SGLD) (Borkar & Mitter, 1999; Welling & Teh,
2011). Both SGD and SGLD can be perceived as stochastic
root-finding algorithms, aiming to locate points where an
equation of вҖңgradient equals zeroвҖқ is satisfied.
In this work, we aim to solve Eq. (9) using SA algorithms,
summarised in Algorithm 1. In particular, to set prices we
run two instances of SA where we set h to be ОҘR(a) and
Algorithm 1 Online SA Algorithm
Require: Wealth estimate (W t)tвҲҲN, ground-truth estimate
g, initial price (a1, b1).
1: for each bettor entering the market at time t do
2:
Receive the bet placed by the bettor vt.
3:
Estimate bettor belief bpt with (at, bt) via Eq. (8).
4:
if bettor t bets for A then
5:
Update the price at+1 as follows:
at+1 = at вҲ’О·t+1(at + G(at) вҲ’bpt).
(10)
6:
else if bettor t bets for B then
7:
Update the price bt+1 as follows:
bt+1 = bt вҲ’О·t+1(bt + G(bt) вҲ’1 + bpt).
(11)
8:
end if
9: end for
ОҘL(b) as per Theorem 4.1. In addition the random noise
Mt+1 are set to be the deviation between an estimate of
the t-th bettorвҖҷs belief and the true mean tail means of the
bettor distribution, i.e., Mt+1 = E [pt | pt вүҘat] вҲ’bpt and
Mt+1 = E [qt | qt вүҘbt]вҲ’1+ bpt, respectively. The resulting
SA updates are given by Eqs. (10) and (11).
Convergence.
Under mild assumptions, Algorithm 1 con-
verges to a local maximum of the bookmakerвҖҷs profit, which
is formally stated in the following theorem.
Theorem 4.3. Suppose that
вҖў The probability density function f is differentiable and
the support of f satisfies supp(f) = [0, 1];
вҖў Bettors will not place bets exceeding the estimated
wealth, i.e., vt вүӨW t;
вҖў The set of solutions to Eq. (9) is finite;
вҖў For i вҲҲ{L, R} and for any p satisfying ОҘi(p) =
0, there exists a neighbourhood N of p such that
ОҘi(z)(z вҲ’p) < 0 for all z вҲҲN \ {p}.
Then for sufficiently large m, Оі > 0, Algorithm 1 will almost
surely converges to a local maximum of u when using a
learning rate О·t = Оі/(t + m).
The second assumption in Theorem 4.3 ensures us that the
individual point-wise predictions of bettorвҖҷs beliefs vt/W t,
for any t, lies in the interval [0, 1]. This further ensures
bpt вҲҲ[0, 1] as per Eq. (8). For the last assumption, it is also
sufficient to have the first derivatives of ОҘR, ОҘL (assuming
differentiability) to be non-zero at the critical points.
The proof of Theorem 4.3 can be divided into the following
key steps. First, by exploiting the bettorsвҖҷ strategies, we
demonstrate that the SA algorithm is well-defined according
to Definition 4.2. Second, by identifying the explicit Lya-
punov function of the process, we show that the SA dynamic
almost surely converges to a critical point of u. Third, we

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
adopt the saddle point avoidance results of Pemantle (1990)
to rule out the possibility that the dynamic converges to
critical points other than local maximisers.
Regarding the efficiency of the algorithm, we establish an
O(1/
вҲҡ
T) convergence against the worst maximiser of ut.
Theorem 4.4. Suppose that the assumptions of Theorem 4.3
holds. Let (aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ) be the worst local maximiser of ut,
(aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ) = arg min
(a,b)вҲҲW
ut(a, b),
where W is the set of all local maximisers of ut. Then, there
exists a finite constant Lu > 0 which is dependent on ut,
such that, for sufficiently large T вҲҲN, we have
E [uT (aT , bT )] вүҘut(aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ) вҲ’7LuT вҲ’1/2.
In particular, when the maximiser is unique, (aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ) =
(aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) is the global maximiser and hence the equilibrium
price. In our analysis, we note that the process will converge
to one of the local maximisers, which is guaranteed to have
a neighbourhood where ut is locally Lipschitz smooth and
concave. By the fact that the process will be in one of such
neighbourhoods when t is large enough, we could charac-
terise the convergence rate under such assumptions. The
detailed analysis is given in Appendix L. Moreover, by con-
ducting the non-escape analysis, similar to Mertikopoulos
et al. (2020, Theorem 4), we obtain a stronger result which
clarifies which local maximiser the process converges to.
Theorem 4.5. Suppose that the assumptions of Theorem 4.3
holds. For any constant Оҙ < 1
2, let (aвҷӯ, bвҷӯ) be one of the
local maximisers of ut. Then there exist neighbourhoods U1
and U of (aвҷӯ, bвҷӯ) such that, if (a1, b1) вҲҲU1, the event
в„ҰU = {(at, bt) вҲҲU for all t вҲҲN}
occurs with probability at least 1вҲ’Оҙ. Moreover, there exists
a finite constant Lu > 0 which is dependent on ut, such
that, for sufficiently large T вҲҲN, we have
E
h


ut(aвҷӯ
T , bвҷӯ
T ) вҲ’ut(aT , bT )



 | в„ҰU
i
вүӨ4
вҲҡ
6LuT вҲ’1/2.
Our proof mainly follows Mertikopoulos et al. (2020) but
addresses several additional technical difficulties. For exam-
ple, our SA algorithm does not perform the exact gradient
step and every bettor does not cause prices to be updated
(they however will contribute to the total time complexity).
Regret.
Although the previous results characterise the
limiting case when T is large, we also want to charac-
terise the cumulative penalty across all timesteps/bettors
t вҲҲ{1 . . . T}. This can be concretely described by re-
gret (Hazan & Kale, 2014; Hazan et al., 2016). In the case
of our bettors and bookmaker profits, we define stochastic
regret in the following.
Algorithm 2 Follow The Leader
Require: Wealth estimate (W t)tвҲҲN, ground-truth estimate
g, clipping value П„ вҲҲ(0, 0.5), initial price a1.
1: for each bettor entering the market at time t do
2:
Receive the bet placed by the bettor vt.
3:
Estimate bettor belief bpt with (at, 1 вҲ’at) via Eq. (8)
4:
Update the estimate of expected belief as
pt = t вҲ’1
t
В· ptвҲ’1 + 1
t В· bpt.
(13)
5:
Following Eq. (14), update the price with a clipped
cumulative average:
at+1 = ПҲ (clip(pt; П„, 1 вҲ’П„)) .
6: end for
// clip(x; l, u)
.= ((x вҲЁl) вҲ§u) for l < u
Definition 4.6. Given a sequence of bookmaker prices
(a1, b1), . . . , (aT , bT ), the stochastic regret against (a, b) is
REGRET(T, a, b)
.= u1:T (a, b) вҲ’u1:T (a1:T , b1:T ).
(12)
Standard stochastic regret (Hazan & Kale, 2014, Sec-
tion 2.2) is given by REGRET(T, aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) with (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) =
arg maxa,b ut(a, b).
Since ut(at, bt) is bounded for all
t вҲҲN, the following result on local stochastic regret can be
obtained immediately.
Corollary 4.7. Suppose that the assumptions of Theo-
rem 4.3 holds. Then we have
E
h
REGRET(T, aвҷӯ, bвҷӯ) | в„ҰU
i
= O(
вҲҡ
T).
The expected regret without conditioning can also be derived
as O(
вҲҡ
T), as per Theorem 4.5 and its assumptions.
5. Online Learning under Fair Odds
In this section, we assume that the bookmaker maintains
fair odds a + b = 1. We note that Algorithm 1 cannot be
directly used for the fair odds case due to two reasons. .
First, prices (and their optimal value) must be restricted
to a region (at, bt) вҲҲ(g, 1) Г— (1 вҲ’g, 1) in Theorem 4.3.
Second, the convergence of Theorem 4.3 relies on the prices
(at, bt) staying within a region where profit ut(at, bt) is
lower-bounded. We do not have the same control to restrict
a under fair odds from reaching the boundaries of [0, 1],
where the gradient of the profit a 7вҶ’ut(a, 1 вҲ’a) can be in-
finite. Instead, we exploit the overall concavity of the profit
function to adapt a follow the leader (FTL) (Hazan et al.,
2016) algorithm for fair odds, as presented in Algorithm 2.
Although our FTL algorithm has worse asymptotic regret
bounds than Algorithm 1, it will have better convergence
conditions вҖ“ importantly, FTLвҖҷs convergence is to the global
maxima unlike Algorithm 1.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Follow The Leader (FTL).
As we have fair odds, bt =
1 вҲ’at, our goal is to maximise profit via the map a 7вҶ’
ut(a, 1 вҲ’a), which is concave, see Eq. (4). Thus, by taking
the first-order optimality condition of ut(a, 1вҲ’a), we get the
following closed-form expression of the (unique) maxima
aвӢҶ= ПҲ(E [pt]), where
ПҲ(p)
.=
вҲҡgp
вҲҡgp +
p
(1 вҲ’g)(1 вҲ’p)
.
(14)
Notably, the optimal price Eq. (14) does not require knowl-
edge of the entire belief distribution f вҖ“ only the first mo-
ment E [pt] is needed. As a result, to find the optimal price
aвӢҶin an online setting, we only need to obtain an online
estimate of the expected bettorвҖҷs belief E [pt].
To estimate the E [pt], we utilise a cumulative average вҖ“ tak-
ing into account all prior bets tвҖІ < t вҖ“ which is equivalent to
making the optimal estimate of aвӢҶ
t = ПҲ(E [pt]) in hindsight,
i.e., a FTL algorithm (Hazan et al., 2016). To ensure that our
cumulative average of bettor belief does not fall outside of
[0, 1], we clip each bpt to a region [П„, 1 вҲ’П„] for П„ вҲҲ(0, 0.5).
Convergence.
We are interested in analysing how the
learned prices (aT , bT ) learned by Algorithm 2 converges
to the optimal prices (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) w.r.t. utility u. A stochas-
tic convergence result for Algorithm 2 can be obtained by
considering the local Lipschitz properties of functions.
Theorem 5.1. Suppose that both g and E [pt] lie in the open
interval (П„, 1вҲ’П„) and wt is uniformly bounded above by an
absolute constant, almost surely. Suppose (at, bt)tвҲҲN is the
price sequence generated by Algorithm 2. Then there exists
a finite L > 0 such that for any Оҙ > 0 and for sufficiently
large T вҲҲN, we have
ut(aT , bT ) вүҘut(aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) вҲ’LT вҲ’1/2p
log(1/Оҙ),
with probability at least 1 вҲ’Оҙ.
The constant L in Theorem 5.1 corresponds to a product
local Lipschitz constants of u and ПҲ when restricting pt to
(П„, 1 вҲ’П„). In general, a larger П„ will result in a larger L.
Regret.
Theorem 5.1 can be restated w.r.t. a high probabil-
ity regret bound (Bubeck et al., 2012; Bartlett et al., 2008).
Corollary 5.2. Suppose that the assumptions of Theorem 5.1
holds. Then with probability 1 вҲ’Оҙ, we have
REGRET(T, aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) = O(
p
T log T).
The proof is immediate from a union bound, yielding sub-
linear regret. Although the regret when compared to Algo-
rithm 1 is worse by a factor of O(вҲҡlog T) (Corollary 4.7)
there are notable differences which make the FTL bound
preferable. For instance, in Theorem 5.1 convergence is w.r.t.
to the global optimal prices (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) whilst Theorem 4.5 is
only w.r.t. a local maxima. Furthermore, in Theorem 5.1
we do not need to condition our price sequence on в„ҰU to
achieve a convergence rate.
As the fair odds setting of betting markets coincides with
prediction markets when g = E [pt], one may want to
consider FTLвҖҷs regret in comparison to prediction mar-
kets. From Frongillo et al. (2012, Corollary 1), we know
that prediction market dynamics follow online mirror de-
scent updates, where the maximised function is a KL-
divergence a 7вҶ’вҲ’KL(E [pt] вҲҘa). The prediction marketвҖҷs
regret (Duchi et al., 2010) w.r.t. this KL-utility can be shown
to be O(вҲҡT log T) вҖ“ taking appropriate step sizes (Hazan
et al., 2016, Chapter 5.3) and a union bound over Оҙ/T steps,
similar to Corollary 5.2 вҖ“ matching the FTL regret. As such,
despite the difference in utilities being maximised, our re-
gret matches automated market makers derived from strictly
convex functions (Abernethy et al., 2013).
6. Empirical Results
We illustrate the efficiency of Algorithms 1 and 2 empir-
ically4. An advantage of our theoretic results is that they
hold for a wide range of bettor belief distributions, only
requiring weak assumptions. Our empirical analysis aims
to elucidate how different properties of the belief distribu-
tions (not captured by theory) change the performance of
our algorithms.
Settings.
We set the bookmakerвҖҷs belief g = 0.5 through-
out all simulations. We generate 105 Kelly bettors with a
mixture of beliefs вҖ“ one Gaussian for event A and B respec-
tively, followed by a sigmoid function to ensure that beliefs
lie within (0, 1), i.e. pt = sigmoid(st), t = 1, . . . , 105 with
st вҲј0.25В·N(2, 1)+0.75В·N(вҲ’1, 1). The histogram of the
distribution is in Fig. 2 (Left). We note that the distribution
has one mode on either side of g but is not symmetric around
g. We compute regret using Definition 4.6, where the op-
timal price is(aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) = arg maxa+bвүҘ1 ut(a, b) generally,
and under fair odds aвӢҶ= arg maxaвҲҲ(0,1) ut(a, 1 вҲ’a).
Fig. 2 summarises our observations of Algorithm 1. We
use four different initialisations, and set the learning rate as
О·t+1 = 300/(t + 5000). As a baseline, we compare this to
a risk-balancing heuristic (Levitt, 2004) where bookmak-
ers try to equalise the number of dollars wagered on each
outcome, the implementation is described in Appendix F.I.
Fig. 2 (Middle) shows that under all initialisations, the SA
algorithm could maintain low regret вүӨ102. However, the
4Code and data to reproduce results are found at: https://github.
com/haiqingzhu543/Betting-Market-Simulation-2024.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
0.0
0.5
1.0
Beliefs
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
Density
g
#Iterations
Regret
SA (0.9,0.9)
SA (0.6,0.6)
SA (0.9,0.6)
SA (0.6,0.9)
Risk Balancing
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
a
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
b
100.0
100.5
101.0
101.5
102.0
102.5
103.0
103.5
0
Figure 2. Simulation of Algorithm 1 with 100,000 bettors. Left: The distribution of bettorsвҖҷ beliefs, unknown to bookmaker. Middle:
Regrets over 100,000 iterations, comparing Algorithm 1 under different initialisation to risk-balancing. Markers вҖңГ—вҖқ indicate number of
iterations on a log-scale {101, . . . , 105}. Right: Contour plot of Оҙ(a, b)
.= u1:T (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) вҲ’u1:T (a, b) where T = 105, darker colours
means closer to maximum profit.
regret under the risk-balancing scheme is larger by more
than an order of magnitude, and keeps increasing (note y-
axis is in log scale). Fig. 2 (Right) shows the trajectories of
the price dynamics - all trajectories converge to the global
maximiser. Further, when t вүҘ104, the trajectories stay
within the last contour, verifying Theorems 4.3 and 4.5, i.e.
the dynamic will converge to a (local) maximiser and stays
in the neighbourhood of the maximiser if it enters it. Over-
all, when the maximiser is unique, Algorithm 1 is robust
across different initialisations, converges fast and suffers
low regret. If the p.d.f. has multiple modes on each side, it
will result in different landscapes of the profit maximisation
problems, one such case is in Appendix F.
0
50000
#Iterations
Regret
LMSR
FTL
0
50000
#Iterations
0.4
0.5
0.6
at
LMSR
FTL
Average Belief
Bookmaker's belief g
Figure 3. Simulating FTL and LMSR over 100,000 iterations. Left:
Regret. Right: Price trajectory at.
Fig. 3 examines Algorithm 2 (FTL) empirically. We com-
pare it to the market-making approach via the Logarithmic
Market Scoring Rule (LMSR) for Kelly bettors (Hanson,
2007; Abernethy et al., 2013; Beygelzimer et al., 2012)
which is primarily designed for prediction markets to elicit
the bettorsвҖҷ beliefs. Fig. 3 (Left) presents the regrets over
time for both algorithms. It is observed that the regret of
FTL stays вүӨ101 throughout and grows slowly, validating
Theorem 5.1. On the other hand, the regret of LMSR grows
faster than FTL. Fig. 3 (Right) presents the trajectories of at
of both algorithms. Both processes converge to steady-states
quickly but there is a noticeable gap between the limits. We
found that the price dynamic of LMSR approximately con-
verges to the average belief of the crowd. As expected,
FTL converges to a point between the bookmakerвҖҷs belief
g = 0.5 and the crowdвҖҷs average belief. Such findings echo
the insight that the bookmaker exploits the bias of bettors to
maximise the profit, c.f. discussion in Section 2.2.
7. Conclusion
We articulate a binary betting market model among Kelly
bettors and utility-maximising bookmakers. This model
encompasses prediction markets and betting markets with
fair and unfair odds. It pinpoints the conflict between profit-
making and eliciting predictions from the crowd вҖ“ a fact
known by others (Chen & Pennock, 2007), but not explicitly
connected to betting markets. This model provides rigorous
justifications of the empirical observations on bookmakers
exploiting bettor bias for profit-making (Levitt, 2004) вҖ“ an-
swering an old academic joke вҖңwe know it works in practice,
but does it work in theory?вҖқ (Wolfers & Zitzewitz, 2006).
Connecting these two insights motivated us to introduce
modern online learning methods into bookmaker strategy,
proposing two algorithms for finding optimal prices. While
online learning strategies abound for prediction markets
(Chen & Vaughan, 2010; Frongillo et al., 2012), ours might
be the first implementable for a betting market.
Directions for future work include: (i) extensions to non-
binary markets; (ii) extensions to alternative bettor be-
haviours, including non-Kelly bettors, non-i.i.d. beliefs, and
belief distribution supported by a strict subset of interval
[0, 1]; (iii) trade-offs between prediction and profit-making;
(iv) quantification of playersвҖҷ power in betting markets; and
(v) conditions for unique equilibrium.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Acknowledgements
This work is supported in part by the Australian Research
Council (ARC) projects DP240100506 and FT230100563.
We thank Rui Zhang and ВҙAlvaro Flores for their insightful
comments on earlier drafts of this paper. We thank Yanjun
Liu for pointers to the theory of stochastic approximation.
Impact Statement
This work presents several theoretical advances on binary
betting markets. Betting (e.g. sports betting and many other
varieties) is a domain loaded with ethical and societal con-
cerns. We will discuss the potential benefits and harms on
several relevant aspects on betting, and then on potential
impacts in other domains.
Theoretical understanding on bookmaker behaviour as pub-
lic knowledge is relatively scant compared to those on bettor
behaviour and betting strategies in both research (Thorp,
1975) and popular culture5. Much knowledge on book-
maker operation are hidden under commercial confidential-
ity, available literature are either empirical (Levitt, 2004) or
whistle-blowing on a particular aspect6. Therefore we deem
new theoretical understanding on what makes bookmaker
profitable, and how much the profit could be to have signifi-
cant potential benefits. On the value of giving bookmakers a
strategy to update prices frequently, a potential benefit is to
have a public strategy that could level the field of gambling
industry. A potential harm could be to increase or decrease
revenue for specific bookmakers, thereby affecting fairness,
or negatively affect a firm or its bettor population.
Bettor behaviour is deemed to follow a particular model
(Kelly, 1956) in this work. Our study focuses on bookmaker
behaviour, but we do not rule out potential flow-on effects
that influence the bettors and could cause potential harm.
This could include peripheral measures that bookmakers
adopt (other than adjusting odds and prices) to limit or
encourage bettors to bet.
The gap between theory and practice is non-trivial for this
work. First of all, most betting markets are non-binary
(including point spread in sports, or overlapping events), and
the price structure is more complex than what is assumed
in this work. Even if someone wants to adopt the online
learning strategies in pricing, it might help or hurt the overall
profit in a complex operations environment influenced by
many other factors.
Finally, our eventual goal is to translate the methods and
insights from binary betting to large-scale online behaviour
mediated by algorithms. Drawing on the analogy with multi-
5https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/21 (2008 film)
6https://www.theguardian.com/society/2022/feb/19/
stake-factoring-how-bookies-clamp-down-on-successful-gamblers
armed bandit problems being applicable to domains as di-
verse as clinical trials to adaptive routing, it is conceivable
that bookmaking strategy can be applicable to domains that
either elicit or exploit belief of the crowd. In particular, this
work quantifies platform power represented by bookmaker
profit obtained using prices as the instrument. We hope
the methodology could help understand other large-scale
online platforms such as social media and online attention
(potential benefit), but also acknowledge that giving online
platforms an implementable profit maximisation scheme
may further increase platform power (potential harm to so-
cietal values).
References
Abernethy, J., Chen, Y., and Vaughan, J. W. Efficient market
making via convex optimization, and a connection to
online learning. ACM Transactions on Economics and
Computation (TEAC), 1(2):1вҖ“39, 2013.
Agrawal, S., Wang, Z., and Ye, Y. Parimutuel betting on
permutations. In Internet and Network Economics, 4th
International Workshop, WINE 2008, Shanghai, China,
December 17-20, 2008. Proceedings, volume 5385 of Lec-
ture Notes in Computer Science, pp. 126вҖ“137. Springer,
2008. doi: 10.1007/978-3-540-92185-1\ 21.
Agrawal, S., Delage, E., Peters, M., Wang, Z., and Ye, Y. A
unified framework for dynamic prediction market design.
Operations Research, 59(3):550вҖ“568, 2011.
Al-Zahrani, B. and Stoyanov, J. On some properties of life
distributions with increasing elasticity and log-concavity.
Applied Mathematical Sciences, 2(48):2349вҖ“2361, 2008.
Algoet, P. H. and Cover, T. M. Asymptotic optimality and
asymptotic equipartition properties of log-optimum in-
vestment. The Annals of Probability, pp. 876вҖ“898, 1988.
Arrow, K. J. and Debreu, G. Existence of an equilibrium for
a competitive economy. Econometrica: Journal of the
Econometric Society, pp. 265вҖ“290, 1954.
Bartlett, P., Dani, V., Hayes, T., Kakade, S., Rakhlin, A.,
and Tewari, A. High-probability regret bounds for bandit
online linear optimization. In Proceedings of the 21st
Annual Conference on Learning Theory-COLT 2008, pp.
335вҖ“342. Omnipress, 2008.
Beygelzimer, A., Langford, J., and Pennock, D. M. Learn-
ing performance of prediction markets with kelly bettors.
In Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on
Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Systems - Volume
3, AAMAS вҖҷ12, pp. 1317вҖ“1318, Richland, SC, 2012.
International Foundation for Autonomous Agents and
Multiagent Systems. ISBN 0981738133.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Borkar, V. S. and Mitter, S. K. A strong approximation the-
orem for stochastic recursive algorithms. Journal of opti-
mization theory and applications, 100:499вҖ“513, 1999.
Bottou, L., Curtis, F. E., and Nocedal, J. Optimization
methods for large-scale machine learning. SIAM review,
60(2):223вҖ“311, 2018.
Brier, G. W. Verification of forecasts expressed in terms of
probability. Monthly Weather Review, 78(1):1вҖ“3, 1950.
doi: 10.1175/1520-0493(1950)078вҹЁ0001:VOFEITвҹ©2.0.
CO;2.
Bubeck, S., Cesa-Bianchi, N., et al. Regret analysis of
stochastic and nonstochastic multi-armed bandit prob-
lems. Foundations and TrendsВ® in Machine Learning, 5
(1):1вҖ“122, 2012.
Busseti, E., Ryu, E. K., and Boyd, S. Risk-constrained
kelly gambling. The Journal of Investing, 25(3):118вҖ“134,
2016.
Chen, Y. and Pennock, D. M.
A utility framework for
bounded-loss market makers. In UAI 2007, Proceed-
ings of the Twenty-Third Conference on Uncertainty in
Artificial Intelligence, Vancouver, BC, Canada, July 19-
22, 2007, pp. 49вҖ“56. AUAI Press, 2007. doi: 10.5555/
3020488.3020495. URL https://dl.acm.org/doi/10.5555/
3020488.3020495.
Chen, Y. and Vaughan, J. W. A new understanding of predic-
tion markets via no-regret learning. In Proceedings 11th
ACM Conference on Electronic Commerce (EC-2010),
Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA, June 7-11, 2010, pp.
189вҖ“198. ACM, 2010. doi: 10.1145/1807342.1807372.
URL https://doi.org/10.1145/1807342.1807372.
Chen, Y., Goel, S., and Pennock, D. M. Pricing combina-
torial markets for tournaments. In Proceedings of the
40th Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing,
Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, May 17-20, 2008, pp.
305вҖ“314. ACM, 2008. doi: 10.1145/1374376.1374421.
URL https://doi.org/10.1145/1374376.1374421.
Chung, K. L. On a stochastic approximation method. The
Annals of Mathematical Statistics, pp. 463вҖ“483, 1954.
Cover, T. M. Elements of information theory. John Wiley &
Sons, 1999.
Davis, M. and Lleo, S. Fractional kelly strategies in con-
tinuous time: Recent developments. Handbook of the
Fundamentals of Financial Decision Making: Part II, pp.
753вҖ“787, 2013.
Dentcheva, D. and Ruszczynski, A.
Optimization with
stochastic dominance constraints. SIAM Journal on Opti-
mization, 14(2):548вҖ“566, 2003.
Duchi, J. C., Shalev-Shwartz, S., Singer, Y., and Tewari, A.
Composite objective mirror descent. In COLT, volume 10,
pp. 14вҖ“26. Citeseer, 2010.
Frongillo, R., Della Penna, N., and Reid, M. D. Interpreting
prediction markets: A stochastic approach. In Proceed-
ings of Neural Information Processing Systems, Lake
Tahoe, USA, December 2012.
Frongillo, R. M. and Reid, M. D. Convergence analysis
of prediction markets via randomized subspace descent.
In Advances in Neural Information Processing Sys-
tems 28: Annual Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems 2015,
December 7-12,
2015,
Montreal, Quebec, Canada, pp. 3034вҖ“3042, 2015.
URL
https://proceedings.neurips.cc/paper/2015/hash/
66be31e4c40d676991f2405aaecc6934-Abstract.html.
Gadat, S. Stochastic optimization algorithms, 2018.
Gneiting, T. and Raftery, A. E. Strictly proper scoring
rules, prediction, and estimation. Journal of the American
Statistical Association, 102(477):359вҖ“378, 2007. doi:
10.1198/016214506000001437.
Good, I. J. Rational decisions. Journal of the Royal Statis-
tical Society. Series B (Methodological), 14(1):107вҖ“114,
1952. doi: 10.1111/j.2517-6161.1952.tb00175.x.
Guo, M. and Pennock, D. M. Combinatorial prediction
markets for event hierarchies. In 8th International Joint
Conference on Autonomous Agents and Multiagent Sys-
tems (AAMAS 2009), Budapest, Hungary, May 10-15,
2009, Volume 1, pp. 201вҖ“208. IFAAMAS, 2009. URL
https://dl.acm.org/citation.cfm?id=1558041.
Hanson, R. Logarithmic markets scoring rules for modular
combinatorial information aggregation. The Journal of
Prediction Markets, 1(1):3вҖ“15, 2007.
Hazan, E. and Kale, S. Beyond the regret minimization
barrier: optimal algorithms for stochastic strongly-convex
optimization. The Journal of Machine Learning Research,
15(1):2489вҖ“2512, 2014.
Hazan, E. and Levy, K. Bandit convex optimization: To-
wards tight bounds. Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 27, 2014.
Hazan, E. et al. Introduction to online convex optimization.
Foundations and TrendsВ® in Optimization, 2(3-4):157вҖ“
325, 2016.
Hsieh, C.-H., Barmish, B. R., and Gubner, J. A. Kelly
betting can be too conservative. In 2016 IEEE 55th con-
ference on decision and control (CDC), pp. 3695вҖ“3701.
IEEE, 2016.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Kelly, J. L. A new interpretation of information rate. the
bell system technical journal, 35(4):917вҖ“926, 1956.
Lattimore, T. Bandit convex optimisation, 2024.
Lattimore, T. and SzepesvВҙari, C. Bandit algorithms. Cam-
bridge University Press, 2020.
Levitt, S. D. Why are gambling markets organised so dif-
ferently from financial markets? The Economic Journal,
114(495):223вҖ“246, 2004.
Markowitz, H. Portfolio selection. The Journal of Finance,
7(1):77вҖ“91, 1952. ISSN 00221082, 15406261. URL
http://www.jstor.org/stable/2975974.
McCarthy, J. Measures of the value of information. Proceed-
ings of the National Academy of Sciences, 42(9):654вҖ“655,
1956. doi: 10.1073/pnas.42.9.654.
Mertikopoulos, P., Hallak, N., Kavis, A., and Cevher, V.
On the almost sure convergence of stochastic gradient
descent in non-convex problems. Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 33:1117вҖ“1128, 2020.
Othman, A., Pennock, D. M., Reeves, D. M., and Sandholm,
T. A practical liquidity-sensitive automated market maker.
ACM Trans. Econ. Comput., 1(3), sep 2013. ISSN 2167-
8375. doi: 10.1145/2509413.2509414. URL https://doi.
org/10.1145/2509413.2509414.
Pemantle, R. Nonconvergence to unstable points in urn
models and stochastic approximations. The Annals of
Probability, 18(2):698вҖ“712, 1990.
Renlund, H. Generalized pВҙolya urns via stochastic approxi-
mation. arXiv preprint arXiv:1002.3716, 2010.
Robbins, H. and Monro, S. A Stochastic Approximation
Method. The Annals of Mathematical Statistics, 22(3):
400 вҖ“ 407, 1951. doi: 10.1214/aoms/1177729586. URL
https://doi.org/10.1214/aoms/1177729586.
Rockafellar, R. T., Uryasev, S., et al. Optimization of condi-
tional value-at-risk. Journal of risk, 2:21вҖ“42, 2000.
Rotando, L. M. and Thorp, E. O. The kelly criterion and the
stock market. The American Mathematical Monthly, 99
(10):922вҖ“931, 1992.
Savage, L. J. Elicitation of personal probabilities and expec-
tations. Journal of the American Statistical Association,
66(336):783вҖ“801, 1971. doi: 10.1080/01621459.1971.
10482321.
Slivkins, A. et al.
Introduction to multi-armed bandits.
Foundations and TrendsВ® in Machine Learning, 12(1-
2):1вҖ“286, 2019.
Sun, Q. and Boyd, S. Distributional robust kelly gambling.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1812.10371, 2018.
Thompson, W. R. On the likelihood that one unknown
probability exceeds another in view of the evidence of
two samples. Biometrika, 25(3-4):285вҖ“294, 1933.
Thorp, E. O. Portfolio choice and the kelly criterion. In
Stochastic optimization models in finance, pp. 599вҖ“619.
Elsevier, 1975.
Thorp, E. O. The kelly criterion in blackjack sports betting,
and the stock market. In Handbook of asset and liability
management, pp. 385вҖ“428. Elsevier, 2008.
Von Stackelberg, H. Marktform und Gleichgewicht. Vi-
enna/Berlin: Julius Springer, 1934.
Welling, M. and Teh, Y. W. Bayesian learning via stochastic
gradient langevin dynamics. In Proceedings of the 28th
international conference on machine learning (ICML-11),
pp. 681вҖ“688. Citeseer, 2011.
Wikipedia Contributors.
Mathematics of bookmaking,
2024. URL https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematics
of bookmaking. [Online; Last accessed Feb 2024].
Wolfers, J. and Zitzewitz, E. Interpreting prediction market
prices as probabilities, 2006.
Yu, D., Gao, J., and Wang, T.
Betting market equilib-
rium with heterogeneous beliefs: A prospect theory-based
model. European Journal of Operational Research, 298
(1):137вҖ“151, 2022a.
Yu, D., Gao, J., Wu, W., and Wang, Z. Price interpretabil-
ity of prediction markets: A convergence analysis. In
EC вҖҷ22: The 23rd ACM Conference on Economics and
Computation, Boulder, CO, USA, July 11 - 15, 2022, pp.
466вҖ“467. ACM, 2022b. doi: 10.1145/3490486.3538347.
URL https://doi.org/10.1145/3490486.3538347.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Supplementary Material
This is the Supplementary Material to Paper вҖқOnline Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus PredictionвҖқ. To differentiate
with the numberings in the main file, the numbering of Theorems is letter-based (A, B, ...).
Table of contents
Additional discussions
,вҶ’Appendix A: Table of Notations
Pg 14
,вҶ’Appendix B: Connecting CVaR and Expected Profit
Pg 14
,вҶ’Appendix C: Lemma on Imprecise Bookmaker Belief
Pg 15
,вҶ’Appendix D: Uniqueness of Maximisers
Pg 16
,вҶ’Appendix E: Incompatibility of Profit Maximisation and Prediction Aggregation
Pg 17
,вҶ’Appendix F: Additional Empirical Results
Pg 17
Proofs and derivations
,вҶ’Appendix G: Derivation of Kelly Bettor Strategy, Eq. (2)
Pg 19
,вҶ’Appendix H: Derivation of the BookmakerвҖҷs Expected Profit, Eq. (3)
Pg 19
,вҶ’Appendix I: Missing Proofs for Section 3
Pg 20
,вҶ’Appendix J: Proof of Theorem 4.1
Pg 22
,вҶ’Appendix K: Proof of Theorem 4.3
Pg 22
,вҶ’Appendix L: Proof of Theorem 4.4
Pg 26
,вҶ’Appendix M: Proof of Theorem 4.5
Pg 28
,вҶ’Appendix N: Proof of Theorem 5.1
Pg 31

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
A. Table of Notations
Symbol
Meaning
Defined
N
Natural numbers {1, 2, . . .}
x вҲ§y
min{x, y}
x вҲЁy
max{x, y}
(x)+
max{x, 0} = x вҲЁ0
clip(x; l, u)
min{max{x, l}, u} = ((x вҲЁl) вҲ§u) for l < u
Algorithm 2
A, B
Outcomes of binary events (A = В¬ B)
Section 2
t
Timestamp and index for bettors, assuming arriving sequentially
Section 2
T
Total number of bettors considered
Section 3
a
Price for event A, 0 < a < 1
Section 2
b
Price for event B, 0 < b < 1
Section 2
g
BookmakerвҖҷs belief
Section 2
pt
Bettor tвҖҷs belief in event A
Section 2.1
qt
Bettor tвҖҷs belief in event B
Section 2.1
wt
Bettor tвҖҷs wealth
Section 2.1
vt
Absolute value of bettor tвҖҷs investment (bet)
Section 2.1
f
p.d.f. of bettorsвҖҷ belief distribution
Section 4
F
c.d.f. of bettorsвҖҷ belief distribution
Section 4
(aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ)
Optimal prices (equilibrium prices)
Definition 3.1
(aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ)
Worst local maximiser of ut
Theorem 4.4
(aвҷӯ, bвҷӯ)
One of the local maximisers of ut
Theorem 4.5
ПҶa
t
Expected logarithm of wealth after bettor t bets on event A
Section 2.1
ПҶb
t
Expected logarithm of wealth after bettor t bets on event B
Section 2.1
ut(a, b)
The bookmakerвҖҷs expected profit at time t
Section 2.2
u(a, b)
Same as ut(a, b); used in the appendix only
ut(a, 1 вҲ’a)
The bookmakerвҖҷs expected profit at time t when the odds are fair
Section 2.2
u1:T (a, b)
BookmakerвҖҷs cumulative profit
Section 3
u1:t(a1:t, b1:t)
Online version of their own expected profit
Section 4
W t
BookmakerвҖҷs estimate of the average wealth of bettor t
Section 4
bpt
BookmakerвҖҷs estimate the belief of bettor t
Section 4
О·t
Learning rate of the Algorithm 1
Algorithm 1
ОҘR, ОҘL, G
Auxiliary functions for characterising the first-order condition
Theorem 4.1
REGRET(T, a, b)
Regret of online algorithms
Definition 4.6
B. Connecting CVaR and Expected Profit
One interesting perspective of Eq. (3) is its connection to conditional value-at-risk (CVaR) (Rockafellar et al., 2000).
Suppose that both terms in Eq. (3) are positive, and that a and b are sufficiently far from g. We derive a lower bound
of ut(a, b) in terms of CVaR values of the belief distribution. Thus, one can conclude that the utility in Eq. (3) is lower
bounded by the tail behaviour of pt, qt. For any random variable X of the belief distribution, let
CVaRОұ(X)
.= E [ X | X вүҘthe (1 вҲ’Оұ)-quantile value of the belief distribution ] ,
Proposition B.1. Suppose that a вҲҲ[вҲҡg, 1] and b вҲҲ[вҲҡ1 вҲ’g, 1]. Then,
u(a, b) вүҘCVaRОұ(pt) + CVaRОІ(qt) вҲ’(a + b),
where
Оұ =
1 вҲ’g
1 вҲ’a вҲ’g
a
вҲ’1
;
ОІ =

g
1 вҲ’b вҲ’1 вҲ’g
b
вҲ’1
.
Proof. We will use the variational form of CVaR depicted in the following theorem.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Theorem B.2 (Rockafellar et al. (2000, Theorem 1)). The conditional value-at-risk of a random variable has the following
variational form:
CVaRОұ(Z) = inf
ПҒвҲҲR

ПҒ + E [(Z вҲ’ПҒ)+]
Оұ

.
(15)
By using the variational form Eq. (15), we have
E [(pt вҲ’a)+] = Оұ В·

a + E [(pt вҲ’a)+]
Оұ
вҲ’a

вүҘОұ В·

inf
ПҒ

ПҒ + E [(pt вҲ’ПҒ)+]
Оұ

вҲ’a

= Оұ В· (CVaRОұ(pt) вҲ’a) .
Analogously, E [(qt вҲ’b)+] вүҘОІ В· (CVaRОІ(qt) вҲ’b).
One can verify that given the conditions of a, b, we have that the terms satisfy:
1 вҲ’g
1 вҲ’a вҲ’g
a
вҲ’1
,

g
1 вҲ’b вҲ’1 вҲ’g
b
вҲ’1
вҲҲ[0, 1]
As such, taking Оұ and ОІ per the theorem, we have,
u(a, b) =
1 вҲ’g
1 вҲ’a вҲ’g
a

E [(pt вҲ’a)+] +

g
1 вҲ’b вҲ’1 вҲ’g
b

E [(qt вҲ’b)+]
= ОұвҲ’1E [(pt вҲ’a)+] + ОІвҲ’1E [(qt вҲ’b)+]
вүҘCVaRОұ(pt) + CVaRОІ(qt) вҲ’(a + b).
C. Lemma on Imprecise Bookmaker Belief
In the following, we present a formal Lemma to clarify our statement about a bookmaker having a belief of A in the form of
an interval (gвҲ’, g+). This imprecise belief allows the bookmaker to be less committed to their position about A.
Lemma C.1. Suppose gвҲ’and g+ are the bookmakerвҖҷs lower and upper bound estimates of the ground truth probability P [A]
such that 0 вүӨgвҲ’вүӨP [A] вүӨg+ вүӨ1. Then, there exists (a, b) such that the bookmakerвҖҷs estimated profit is non-negative at
time t, for any preference distribution.
Proof. The proof follows similarly to the derivation of the bookmakerвҖҷs expected profit Eq. (3), as proven in Appendix H.
Consider the expected bookmakerвҖҷs profit over the ground truth probability at time t:
utrue
t
(a, b) =
1 вҲ’P [A]
1 вҲ’a
вҲ’P [A]
a

E [(pt вҲ’a)+] +
 P [A]
1 вҲ’b вҲ’1 вҲ’P [A]
b

E [(qt вҲ’b)+] .
Since, gвҲ’вүӨP [A] вүӨg+, the bookmaker could obtain the following lower bound:
utrue
t
(a, b) вүҘ
1 вҲ’g+
1 вҲ’a вҲ’g+
a

E [(pt вҲ’a)+] +
 gвҲ’
1 вҲ’b вҲ’1 вҲ’gвҲ’
b

E [(qt вҲ’b)+] .
(16)
By setting a вүҘg+ and 1 вҲ’b вүӨgвҲ’, we can conclude that both terms are nonnegative.
We remark that Algorithm 1 could still be applied to the scenario that the bookmaker has imprecise estimates of the
probability. The reason is that the SA algorithm could be regarded as two separate stochastic approximation processes
on ОҘR and ОҘL (see Eq. (9)). Hence we could work on those problems with g+ and gвҲ’(as parameters of the function G)
separately to optimise the lower bound Eq. (16).

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
D. Uniqueness of Maximisers
Critical points of of the profit function Eq. (3) are determined by the following equation
E [pt | pt вүҘa] вҲ’a = a(1 вҲ’a)(a вҲ’g)
a2 вҲ’2ga + g ,
(17)
where the LHS is known as the Mean Residual Life (MRL) of the bettorsвҖҷ belief distribution. It is known that the MRL is
decreasing when the belief distribution is log-concave (Al-Zahrani & Stoyanov, 2008). If the root of the above equation is
unique in the open interval (0, 1), then the root must be the unique maximiser of the profit function Eq. (3).
We empirically examine the uniqueness of such roots for common distributions. Fig. I (Left) depicts the roots of the
equation above. As demonstrated, the belief distribution used in the experiment of Section 6 corresponds to unique profit
maximiser. Whereas the belief distribution corresponds to multiple maxmisers (Appendix F) induces multiple roots of the
above equation. Further, we plotted cases of (truncated) normal distribution and (truncated) exponential distributions. It
turns out that all the cases we have tested admit unique profit maximisers.
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
a
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
utility
Distribution shown in Figure 2
Distribution shown in Figure I (appendix F)
G(a)
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
a
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
utility
Exp( = 1)
Exp( = 2)
Exp( = 5)
G(a)
Figure I. Illustrations of the roots of Eq. (17). The dashed red line represents the value of RHS and all others represent the LHS with
expectations taken w.r.t. different distributions. (left plot) Distributions used in Section 6 and Appendix F. (right plot) Truncated
exponential distributions with different parameters О» вҲҲ{1, 2, 5}.
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
a
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
utility
(0.5, 0.2)
(0.6, 0.2)
(0.7, 0.2)
(0.8, 0.2)
(0.9, 0.2)
G(a)
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
a
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
utility
(0.8, 0.2)
(0.8, 0.1)
(0.8, 0.05)
G(a)
Figure II. Illustrations of the roots of Eq. (17). The dashed red line represents the value of RHS and all others represent the LHS with expec-
tations taken w.r.t. different belief distributions. (left plot) Truncated Gaussian distributions with different means {0.5, 0.6, 0.7, 0.8, 0.9}
and the same variance 0.2. (right plot) Truncated Gaussian distributions with the same mean 0.2 but different variances {0.2, 0.1, 0.05}.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
E. Incompatibility of Profit Maximisation and Prediction Aggregation
By Eq. (3), the expected profit when g = 0.5 is

1 вҲ’a вҲ’1
a

В· E [(pt вҲ’a)+] + 1

1 вҲ’b вҲ’1
b

В· E [(qt вҲ’b)+] .
LetвҖҷs focus on the first term. If m вҲ’вҲҶ1 вүӨa вүӨm + вҲҶ1, the first term becomes

1 вҲ’a вҲ’1
a

В·E [(pt вҲ’a)+] = 1

1 вҲ’a вҲ’1
a

В·
Z m+вҲҶ1
a
(pвҲ’a)В· 1
4вҲҶ1
dp =
16вҲҶ1

1 вҲ’a вҲ’1
a

(a вҲ’(m + вҲҶ1))2 .
If 0.5 вүӨa вүӨm вҲ’вҲҶ1, the first term becomes

1 вҲ’a вҲ’1
a

В· E [(pt вҲ’a)+] = 1

1 вҲ’a вҲ’1
a

В·
Z m+вҲҶ1
mвҲ’вҲҶ1
(p вҲ’a) В·
4вҲҶ1
dp = 1

1 вҲ’a вҲ’1
a

(m вҲ’a) .
We seek a = aвӢҶthat maximizes the expected profit over the interval [0.5, m + вҲҶ1]. There is no simple closed-form formula
for aвӢҶ, so we numerically compute aвӢҶfor different combinations of m and вҲҶ1. For any fixed m, we report the possible
range of aвӢҶin Table 2.
F. Additional Empirical Results
F.I. The Risk Balancing Algorithm
Algorithm 3 Risk Balancing Algorithm
Require: Initial price a0, b0, Learning rate (О·t+1)tвҲҲN.
1: Initialise the total bets as BL = BR = 0
2: for each bettor entering the market at time t do
3:
Receive the bet placed by the bettor vt.
4:
if the bet is placed on A then
5:
Update the total amount bet on A.
BR = BR + vt
(18)
6:
else
7:
Update the total amount bet on B.
BL = BL + vt
(19)
8:
end if
9:
Update the prices following
a = a + О·t+1(BR вҲ’BL), b = b + О·t+1(BL вҲ’BR).
10: end for
F.II. SA under Multi-modal Distribution
Fig. III shows the cases when the maximiser of u is not unique. From the right plot, we can see that these four processes,
under different initialisations, will converge to four different maximisers respectively. From the middle plot, we could find
that the regrets of processes converging to extremely вҖңbadвҖқ maximisers (i.e. green and purple) are increasing drastically
and comparable to the risk balancing scheme. The process converges to the global maximiser (red) and has regret вүӨ101
throughout. Therefore, we conclude that under the regimes that the maximisers are not unique, proper initialisation is needed
to attain the desired regret bound.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
0.0
0.5
1.0
Beliefs
0
Density
g
Density
#Iterations
Regret
SA (0.9,0.9)
SA (0.6,0.6)
SA (0.9,0.6)
SA (0.6,0.9)
Risk Balancing
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
a
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
b
100.0
100.5
101.0
101.5
102.0
102.5
103.0
103.5
0
Figure III. Simulation results of Algorithm 1 algorithm with 100, 000 bettors. Left: The histogram distribution of bettorsвҖҷ beliefs. Middle:
The regrets over 100, 000 iterations, data is collected every 1, 000 iterations. The points of # iterations = {101, . . . , 105} are marked with
вҖқГ—вҖқ. Right: Contour plot of Оҙ(a, b)
.= u1:T (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) вҲ’u1:T (a, b), the darkness is of colour is associated with the value Оҙ according to the
color bar to the right.
F.III. Different Regret Definitions
Other than the вҖңstochastic regretвҖқ definition we used throughout the main text, another commonly used definition is the
вҖңadversarial regretвҖқ (Hazan & Kale, 2014), which could be defined as:
REGRETadv(T) =
max
(a,b):a+bвүҘ1
( T
X
t=1
1 вҲ’g
1 вҲ’a вҲ’g
a

(pt вҲ’a)+wt +

g
1 вҲ’b вҲ’1 вҲ’g
b

(qt вҲ’b)+wt
)
вҲ’
T
X
t=1
 1 вҲ’g
1 вҲ’at
вҲ’g
at

(pt вҲ’at)+wt +

g
1 вҲ’bt
вҲ’1 вҲ’g
bt

(qt вҲ’bt)+wt,
The adversarial regret is based on true wealth and beliefs of the bettors. We note that this quantity is not accessible for
bookmakers, as the exact quantities of wt and pt are not assumed to be known by the bookmaker. However, we could still
test our algorithm under such a benchmark to examine the efficiency.
# Iterations
Regret
Sto.Reg. (0.9, 0.9)
Adv.Reg. (0.9, 0.9)
Sto.Reg. (0.6, 0.6)
Adv.Reg. (0.6, 0.6)
Sto.Reg. (0.9, 0.6)
Adv.Reg. (0.9, 0.6)
Sto.Reg. (0.6, 0.9)
Adv.Reg. (0.6, 0.9)
Figure IV. Stochastic and Adversarial Regrets under the belief distribution discussed in Section 6
We could identify that stochastic regret and adversarial regret are nearly indistinguishable after 103 iterations, which justifies
that our algorithm is also efficient in terms of adversarial regret.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
G. Derivation of Kelly Bettor Strategy, Eq. (2)
Consider the problem
max
vвүҘ0 ПҶa
t (v) = max
vвүҘ0

pt log

wt + 1 вҲ’a
a
v

+ qt log(wt вҲ’v)

.
Let vвӢҶ
a = arg maxvвүҘ0 ПҶa
t (v). It is straightforward to verify that this problem is concave. Hence, by equalising the gradient
to 0, we have
вҲӮПҶa
t (vвӢҶ
a)
вҲӮv
= pt В·
1вҲ’a
a
wt + 1вҲ’a
a vвӢҶa
вҲ’qt В·
wt вҲ’vвӢҶa
= 0.
This implies vвӢҶ
a = ptвҲ’a
1вҲ’a wt if pt > a and vвӢҶ
a = 0 otherwise. By symmetry, vвӢҶ
b
.= arg maxvвүҘ0 ПҶb
t(v) = qtвҲ’b
1вҲ’b wt if qt > b and
vвӢҶ
b = 0 otherwise. This implies the result.
One example of the Kelly Bettor strategy is illustrated in Fig. V, where positive values are the amounts bet on A, and
negative values are the amounts bet on B.
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
pt
1.0
0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
v
v
v
a=0.6, b=0.7, w=1, p=0.8
a=0.6, b=0.7, w=1, p=0.2
'b(v)
'b(v)
*
*
Figure V. An illustration of Kelly Bettor strategy with prices a = 0.6 and b = 0.7, bettor wealth wt = 1. (left plot) Optimal investment
strategy vвҲ—
t is a function of bettor belief p = pt. (middle and right plots) An illustration of the expected log wealth function for betting
on either side ПҶa(v), ПҶb(v), with their maximum marked in red. At pt = 0.8, the optimal betting amount is vвҲ—= 0.5 for event A; at
pt = 0.2, the optimal betting amount is vвҲ—= 0.33 for event B.
H. Derivation of the BookmakerвҖҷs Expected Profit, Eq. (3)
The bookmakerвҖҷs expected profit at time t is equal to the expected amount of payin minus the expected amount of payout.
Since the wealth of bettors is independent of the beliefs, we first assume the bettorвҖҷs wealth is 1.
If event A happens, by Eq. (2), the amount of payin minus payout is
Z 1
a
p вҲ’a
1 вҲ’af(p) dp +
Z 1вҲ’b
0
1 вҲ’p вҲ’b
1 вҲ’b
f(p) dp вҲ’1
a
Z 1
a
p вҲ’a
1 вҲ’af(p) dp
= 1
a
Z 1
a
(a вҲ’p)f(p) dp +
Z 1вҲ’b
0
1 вҲ’p вҲ’b
1 вҲ’b
f(p) dp.
Similarly, if the event B happens, the amount of payin minus payout is
Z 1
a
p вҲ’a
1 вҲ’af(p) dp +
Z 1вҲ’b
0
1 вҲ’p вҲ’b
1 вҲ’b
f(p) dp вҲ’1
b
Z 1вҲ’b
0
1 вҲ’p вҲ’b
1 вҲ’b
f(p) dp
=
Z 1
a
p вҲ’a
1 вҲ’af(p) dp + 1
b
Z 1вҲ’b
0
(b + p вҲ’1)f(p) dp.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
We could get the result directly by combining the terms and noticing the facts
вҲ’E [(pt вҲ’a)+] =
Z 1
a
(a вҲ’p)f(p) dp,
вҲ’E [(1 вҲ’pt вҲ’b)+] =
Z 1вҲ’b
0
(b + p вҲ’1)f(p) dp.
I. Proofs for Section 3
I.I. Proof of Lemma 3.2
Lemma 3.2. For any fixed T, the profit function u1:T in Eq. (6) is upper-bounded, and it admits at least one maximiser
(aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) вҲҲ(0, 1)2.
Proof. Since T is fixed, it suffices to consider the static case where u
.= ut. To see u is upper-bounded, for the first term we
have
1 вҲ’g
1 вҲ’a вҲ’g
a

E [(pt вҲ’a)+] =
a вҲ’g
(1 вҲ’a)a
Z 1
a
(p вҲ’a)f(p) dp вүӨ1 вҲ’g
a,
where the last inequality follows from p вүӨ1. Similarly,

g
1 вҲ’b вҲ’1 вҲ’g
b

E [(1 вҲ’b вҲ’pt)+] = b вҲ’(1 вҲ’g)
(1 вҲ’b)b
Z 1вҲ’b
0
(1 вҲ’b вҲ’p)f(p) dp вүӨ1.
Therefore, u is upper-bounded. Next, to show the maximiser exists, we first recall that the domain of the profit function is
the set D ={0 < a < 1, 0 < b < 1, a + b вүҘ1}. Define a sequence (xk) вҠӮD such that u(xk) вҶ’supxвҲҲD u(x). Since the
sequence is bounded, there exists xвҲ—which is the limit of a convergent subsequence. We only need to show xвҲ—вҲҲD. Indeed,
xвҲ—is in the closure of D. Denote the closure of D as ВҜD, we notice that ВҜD \ D = {(a, b) : a = 1 or b = 1, a + b вүҘ1}. We
can see that the limit
lim
aвҶ’1
(1 вҲ’g)E [(pt вҲ’a)+]
1 вҲ’a
= lim
aвҶ’1
(1 вҲ’g) В·
R 1
a 1 вҲ’F(x) dx
1 вҲ’a
= lim
aвҶ’1
(1 вҲ’g) В· (F(a) вҲ’1)
вҲ’1
= 0.
Therefore,
lim
aвҶ’1
1 вҲ’g
1 вҲ’a вҲ’g
a

E [(pt вҲ’a)+] = lim
aвҶ’1 вҲ’g
aE [(pt вҲ’a)+] = 0.
However, it is clear that the term

1вҲ’g
1вҲ’a вҲ’g
a

E [(pt вҲ’a)+] could achieve some positive value when g < a < 1. Thus,
we can rule out the cases that any sequences (xk)kвҲҲN = (ak, bk)kвҲҲN such that ak вҶ’1 will converge to some maximiser.
Exactly the same arguments could also rule out the cases that sequences with bk вҶ’1 will converge to some maximiser,
which concludes that the maximiser should exist in the set D.
I.II. Proof of Lemma 3.3
Lemma 3.3. Suppose the bettor belief distribution f(x) > 0 for all x вҲҲ(0, 1), then for prices with non-zero overround
a + b > 1, all maximisers (aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) of profit satisfies
1 вҲ’bвӢҶ< g < aвӢҶ.
Proof. For notational simplicity, we denote the first term of u as О 1 and the second term of u as О 2:
О 1 =
1 вҲ’g
1 вҲ’a вҲ’g
a

E [(pt вҲ’a)+]
О 2 =

g
1 вҲ’b вҲ’1 вҲ’g
b

E [(1 вҲ’a вҲ’pt)+] .

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
We will prove by contradiction. Since a + b вүҘ1, the other possibilities of the ordering could be 1 вҲ’bвҲ—вүӨaвҲ—вүӨg or
g вүӨ1 вҲ’bвҲ—вүӨaвҲ—. Suppose 1 вҲ’bвҲ—вүӨaвҲ—вүӨg, then we must have О 1 вүӨ0. However, if we increase aвҲ—to eaвҲ—such that eaвҲ—> g.
We will have
О 1( eaвҲ—) > 0 вүҘО 1(aвҲ—).
Therefore, ( eaвҲ—, bвҲ—) is still a maximiser. Hence, this leads to a contradiction since (aвҲ—, bвҲ—) cannot be the maximiser. With the
same arguments, we can also rule out the other case.
I.III. Proof of Proposition 3.4
Proposition 3.4. Let uвӢҶdenote the maximum utility corresponding to Eq. (6). Then uвӢҶвүҘ(g вҲ’E [pt])2.
Proof. We consider the case that a + b = 1 since the lower bound is still valid when we ease the assumption to a + b вүҘ1.
Consider the price a = E[pt]+g
, the profit becomes
u(a, 1 вҲ’a) = g вҲ’E [pt]
В· g вҲ’E [pt]
В·
(1 вҲ’a)a
where the term
(1вҲ’a)a is minimised when a = 1
2. Hence, we could conclude the result.
I.IV. Proof of Proposition 3.6
Proposition 3.6. Fixing g, let u1, u2 be profit functions Eq. (3) using preference distributions F1, F2, respectively. Assume
the p.d.f.вҖҷs f1, f2 satisfy supp(f1) = supp(f2) = [0, 1]. If F1 is SOSD over F2, then for any pair of prices a вҲҲ(g, 1) and
b вҲҲ(1 вҲ’g, 1), we have
u1(a, b) < u2(a, b);
uвӢҶ
1 < uвӢҶ
2,
where uвӢҶ
1 = maxa,b u1(a, b) and uвӢҶ
2 = maxa,b u2(a, b).
Proof. Since F1 SOSD over F2, we have
Z x
0
F1(w) dw <
Z x
0
F2(w) dw.
Substracting both sides with
R 1
0 F1(w) dw =
R 1
0 F2(w) dw we have
Z 1
x
F1(w) dw >
Z 1
x
F2(w) dw.
For the profit function, we note that
E [(pt вҲ’a)+] =
Z 1
a
(p вҲ’a)f(p) dp = 1 вҲ’a вҲ’
Z 1
a
F(p) dp,
where F is the cdf. Hence,
E1[(pt вҲ’a)+] = 1 вҲ’a вҲ’
Z 1
a
F1(p) dp < 1 вҲ’a вҲ’
Z 1
a
F(p) dp = E2[(pt вҲ’a)+].
Similarly, for the second term, we have
E1[(1 вҲ’b вҲ’pt)+] =
Z 1вҲ’b
0
F1(p) dp <
Z 1вҲ’b
0
F2(p) dp = E2[(1 вҲ’b вҲ’pt)+].
Since 1 вҲ’b < g < a, the coefficients of expectations in the profit function are positive. Therefore, it is clear that
u1(a, b) < u2(a, b).
For the maxima of profit, suppose (aвҲ—, bвҲ—) is the maximiser of u1. By Lemma 3.3, we know that 1вҲ’bвҲ—< g < aвҲ—. Therefore,
uвҲ—
1 = u1(aвҲ—, bвҲ—) < u2(aвҲ—, bвҲ—) вүӨuвҲ—
2.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
J. Proof of Theorem 4.1
Theorem 4.1. The first-order optimality condition could be reformulated as
(
ОҘR(a)
.= G(a) + a вҲ’E [pt | pt вүҘa] = 0;
ОҘL(b)
.= G(b) + b вҲ’E [pt | pt вүӨ1 вҲ’b] = 0,
(9)
where G(x) = x(1 вҲ’x)(x вҲ’g)/(x2 вҲ’2gx + g).
Proof. By symmetry, we will focus on the right hand side price a. We notice that
E [(pt вҲ’a)+] = P [pt вүҘa] В· E [(pt вҲ’a)+ | pt вүҘa] + P [pt вүӨa] В· E [(pt вҲ’a)+ | pt вүӨa]
= P [pt вүҘa] В· E [pt вҲ’a | pt вүҘa]
= P [pt вүҘa] В· (E [pt | pt вүҘa] вҲ’a)
= (1 вҲ’F(a)) В· (E [pt | pt вүҘa] вҲ’a).
(20)
On the other hand, E [(pt вҲ’a)+] =
R 1
a (ptвҲ’a)f(pt) dpt, so by the Leibniz integration rule, вҲӮE[(ptвҲ’a)+]
вҲӮa
= вҲ’
R 1
a f(pt) dpt =
F(a) вҲ’1. Thus, the derivative of the profit function is
вҲӮu
вҲӮa = (F(a) вҲ’1)(a вҲ’g)
a(1 вҲ’a)
+ E [(pt вҲ’a)+] (a2 вҲ’2ga + g)
a2(1 вҲ’a)2
.
Hence, for critical points, we have
a(1 вҲ’a)(a вҲ’g)(F(a) вҲ’1) + E [(pt вҲ’a)+] (a2 вҲ’2ga + g) = 0.
Further, by Eq. (20), we can reformulate above equation to
E [pt | pt вүҘa] вҲ’a = a(1 вҲ’a)(a вҲ’g)
a2 вҲ’2ga + g .
K. Proof of Theorem 4.3
We first restate the theorem:
Theorem 4.3. Suppose that
вҖў The probability density function f is differentiable and the support of f satisfies supp(f) = [0, 1];
вҖў Bettors will not place bets exceeding the estimated wealth, i.e., vt вүӨW t;
вҖў The set of solutions to Eq. (9) is finite;
вҖў For i вҲҲ{L, R} and for any p satisfying ОҘi(p) = 0, there exists a neighbourhood N of p such that ОҘi(z)(z вҲ’p) < 0
for all z вҲҲN \ {p}.
Then for sufficiently large m, Оі > 0, Algorithm 1 will almost surely converges to a local maximum of u when using a
learning rate О·t = Оі/(t + m).
The proof of Theorem 4.3 has three main steps. First, we show that the update rule in Algorithm 1 is indeed a stochastic
approximation process as in Definition 4.2. Second, we leverage the convergence results of stochastic approximation process
from existing literature (Gadat, 2018) to show that Algorithm 1 converges toward a critical point. Finally, we use two
theorems of Pemantle (1990); Renlund (2010) to show that the critical point is a local maximizer almost surely. The proofs
below focus on Eq. (10) where the bettors bet on the positive side (i.e. pt > at). The other side is symmetric.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
K.I. Step 1: Algorithm 1 is a Stochastic Approximation Process
The update rule Eq. (10) can be written in the form of
at+1 = at вҲ’О·t+1(h(at) + Mt+1),
where h(at) = at + G(at) вҲ’E [pt | pt вүҘat] and Mt+1 = E [pt | pt вүҘat] вҲ’bpt. We will show that this update rule is a
stochastic approximation process as in Definition 4.2. First, we check that |h(at)| and |Mt+1| are bounded for every t вҲҲN.
Lemma K.1. Assume the process (at)tвҲҲN is generated by Algorithm 1 and stays in the region [g, 1]. Then,
|h(at)| вүӨ2,
|Mt+1| вүӨ1,
for every t вҲҲN.
Proof. First of all,
|h(at)| = |at + G(at) вҲ’E [pt | pt вүҘat]| вүӨ|G(at)| + |at вҲ’E [pt | pt вүҘat]| .
For any at вҲҲ[g, 1], we have
G(at) = at(1 вҲ’at)(at вҲ’g)
a2
t вҲ’2gat + g
=
at(1 вҲ’at)(at вҲ’g)
at(at вҲ’g) + g(1 вҲ’at) вүӨ1 вҲ’at вүӨ1.
Also, both at and E [pt | pt вүҘat] are bounded within [0, 1], so their absolute difference is at most 1. This concludes that
|h(at)| вүӨ2.
To bound |Mt+1|, we notice that by the assumption vt вүӨW t, we have
0 вүӨbpt = (1 вҲ’at)vt
W t
+ at вүӨ1 вҲ’at + at = 1.
Hence, both bpt and E [pt | pt вүҘat] are bounded within [0, 1], so their absolute difference is at most 1.
It remains to show that E [Mt+1 | Ft] = 0, which is established in the next lemma.
Lemma K.2. Let (Ft)tвҲҲN be the filtration that the SA process generated by Algorithm 1 adapted to. For every t вҲҲN, we
have
E [bpt | Ft] = E [pt | pt вүҘat] .
Proof. We could notice that
E [bpt | Ft] = E
(1 вҲ’at)vt
W t
+ at | Ft

,
where vt = ptвҲ’at
1вҲ’at wt from the Kelly bettorвҖҷs rule. Hence,
E
(pt вҲ’at)wt
W t
+ at | Ft

= E

at(1 вҲ’wt
W t
) + pt | Ft

= E [pt | Ft] + at
E

W t вҲ’wt

W t
= E [pt | pt вүҘat] + at
E

W t вҲ’wt

W t
= E [pt | pt вүҘat] .
where the third equality follows from the fact that, at time t, pt is sampled from the belief distribution conditioned on the
event {pt > at} and the last equlity holds as W t is the unbiased estimator of wt.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
K.II. Step 2: Convergence to Critical Points
It is known that SA dynamics converge under some assumptions. In our case, we immediately identify that the profit
function u is a Lyapunov function of the dynamic. We will adopt the following technical result.
Theorem K.3 (Gadat (2018, Corollary 2.3.2)). Let в„Ұbe a convex set in R. Suppose (Xt)tвҲҲN вҠӮв„Ұis a stochastic
approximation process defined in Definition 4.2. Let V be twice differentiable and L-smooth function such that for any
x вҲҲв„Ұ,
вҲҮV (x) В· h(x) вүҘ0,
|h(x)|2 + |вҲҮV (x)|2 вүӨC(1 + V (x))
for some positive constant C; furthermore, the noise terms satisfies
E

|Mt|2|FtвҲ’1

вүӨC(1 + V (XnвҲ’1)) вҲҖt вҲҲN.
Assume that the set {x | V (x) = v} вҲ©{x | вҲҮV (x) В· h(x) = 0} is finite for every v вҲҲR. Then, Xt converges towards XвҲһ
almost surely and вҲҮV (XвҲһ) В· h(XвҲһ) = 0.
Therefore, by restricting the learning rate О·t so that at remains bounded within the interval [g, 1], we can use the above
theorem to establish the convergence result. We prove the following lemma to show that the process is restricted in the
region at вҲҲ(g, 1) and b вҲҲ(1 вҲ’g, 1) under the assumptions of Theorem 4.3.
Lemma K.4. The process (at)tвҲҲN вҠӮ(g, 1) for all t вҲҲN if and only if a0 вҲҲ[g, 1) and
О·t < min

1, 1
LG

,
where LG is the Lipschitz constant of the function G defined in Theorem 4.1.
Proof. We will prove by induction. For the base case, a0 is picked within [g, 1) on purpose. Next, we assume at вҲҲ[g, 1).
We note that
at+1 = at + О·t(bpt вҲ’at вҲ’G(at))
= at + О·t
(pt вҲ’at)wt
W t
вҲ’G(at)

вүҘat вҲ’О·t В· G(at).
where the inequality follows from the fact that pt вүҘat. If О·t вүӨ
LG , then
О·t вүӨ
LG
вүӨ
at вҲ’g
G(at) вҲ’G(g) = at вҲ’g
G(at) .
It follows that
at+1 вүҘat вҲ’О·t В· G(at) вүҘg.
Since bpt вүӨ1, by the fact that О·t вүӨ1, we can conclude that
at+1 = at + О·t(bpt вҲ’at вҲ’G(at))
вүӨat + О·t(1 вҲ’at вҲ’G(at))
вүӨ1 вҲ’G(at) вүӨ1.
K.III. Step 3: Non-convergence to local minimizers or boundary points
The last part to conclude the proof is to classify the critical points and show that the SA dynamic will avoid local minimisers
with probability 1. First, we utilise the following theorem to exclude the probability that the dynamic will converge to
interior local minimisers.
Theorem K.5 (Pemantle (1990, Theorem 1)). Let (Xt)tвҲҲN be a stochastic approximation process defined in Definition 4.2.
Suppose (Xt)tвҲҲN вҠӮint в„Ұfor some set в„Ұ, and h(p) = 0 for some p вҲҲв„Ұ. Let Np be a neighbourhood of p. Assume that, for
some constants c1, c2, c3, c4 > 0, the following conditions are satisfied whenever Xt вҲҲNp and t is sufficiently large:

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
вҖў h is twice differentiable; t
вҖў h(x)(x вҲ’p) < 0 for any x Мё= p and x is close to p;
вҖў
c1
t вүӨО·t вүӨc2
t ;
вҖў E [|Mt|] вүҘc3; and
вҖў |Mt| вүӨc4 almost surely.
Then P [Xt вҶ’p] = 0.
Since the last assumption of Theorem 4.3 rules out the possibility of saddle points, the critical point is either a local
maximiser or a local minimiser. Applying Theorem K.5 will rule out the possibility of convergence to local minimisers.
Next, we are still left to check that the dynamic will not converge to boundaries, where we note that the boundary points
{0, 1} are indeed critical points of the profit function, which could not be handled directly by Theorem K.5. To demonstrate
non-convergence to such boundaries, we will rely on RenlundвҖҷs (Renlund, 2010) result and control the convergence to the
boundary by inspecting the intrinsic characteristics of the dynamics.
We will focus on the non-convergence to 1. It is immediate that 1 is a critical point. Moreover, the profit is 0 when a = 1.
We formally state the main technical tool below.
Theorem K.6 (Renlund (2010, Theorem 3)). Suppose that (Xt)tвҲҲN вҠӮ(a, b) is a SA process defined in Definition 4.2.
Assume that for any p вҲҲ{a, b}, h(p) = 0 and h(x)(x вҲ’p) < 0 for any x Мё= p and x is close to p. Also, assume there exists
positive constants K1, K2 such that
E

M 2
t+1|Ft

вүӨK1|Xt вҲ’p|,
[h(x)]2 вүӨK2|x вҲ’p|,
t В· |Xt вҲ’p| вҶ’вҲһ, as t вҶ’вҲһ.
(21)
Then P [Xt вҶ’p] = 0.
We start by checking h(x)(x вҲ’1) < 0 when x is near 1. It is equivalent to showing h(x) > 0 when x is near 1. Recall that
h(x) = x + G(x) вҲ’E [pt | pt вүҘx] = ОҘR(x), which is a continuous function since the p.d.f. f is differentiable. By the
third assumption of Theorem 4.3, ОҘR(x) has finitely many roots in the interval (0, 1). Thus, for all x between the largest
root and 1, ОҘR(x) must have the same sign. By our calculations in Appendix J, ОҘR(x) has opposite sign of вҲӮu(x)
вҲӮx . Also,
observe that in Eq. (3), when x is near 1,

1вҲ’g
1вҲ’x вҲ’g
x

E [(pt вҲ’x)+] is strictly positive while its value is zero when x вҶ—1.
Combining all of the above, вҲӮu(x)
вҲӮx
must be negative when x is near 1, implying h(x) = ОҘR(x) must be positive.
Then we will mainly focus on verifying Eq. (21) since the other assumptions in the above theorem are immediately satisfied.
To start, we have the following lemma.
Lemma K.7. For x вҲҲ[g, 1],
1 вҲ’x вҲ’G(x) вүӨC В· (1 вҲ’x)2
for some constant C.
Proof. By direct calculation, we could see that it is equivalent to show that
g
x2 вҲ’2gx + g вүӨC.
For C вүҘ
1вҲ’g, we have (1 вҲ’1
C )g вүҘg2. Hence, x2 вҲ’2gx + (1 вҲ’1
C )g вүҘx2 вҲ’2gx + g2 вүҘ0. It concludes the proof.
Next, we are ready to verify that (21) is satisfied for the dynamic generated by Algorithm 1.
Lemma K.8. Let (at)tвҲҲN be the process generated by Algorithm 1, we have
t В· |at вҲ’1| вҶ’вҲһ, as t вҶ’вҲһ.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Proof. First, since vt вүӨW t, by Lemma K.7 we have
at+1 = at + О·t(bpt вҲ’at вҲ’G(at))
вүӨat + О·t(1 вҲ’at вҲ’G(at))
вүӨat + CО·t(1 вҲ’at)2.
For some large enough T, we have
CОі
t+m вүӨ1 for all t вүҘT. Define a sequence (xt)tвҲҲN such that x1 = aT and
xt+1 = xt +
t+T +m+1(1 вҲ’xt)2. It follows that 1 вҲ’at+T вүҘ1 вҲ’xt for any t вүҘ1. Hence, it suffices to show that
t В· (1 вҲ’xt) вҶ’вҲһ. Let yt = 1 вҲ’xt, We hypothesise that yt вүҘ
вҲҡ
ty1. We will prove inductively. The base case is trivial. For
the step case, we assume that yt вүҘ
вҲҡ
ty1, we aim to show that yt+1 вүҘ
вҲҡt+1y1. Notice that,
(t + 1) В· t1/2 вҲ’(t + 1)1/2 В· t вүҘy1,
for y1 sufficiently small. And the LHS is increasing as t increases. Hence,
t + 1 В· 1
t В· y2
1 вүӨ
 1
t1/2 вҲ’
(t + 1)1/2

В· y1.
Therefore, by inductive hypothesis
yt+1 вүҘyt вҲ’
t + 1y2
t вүҘ
t1/2 y1 вҲ’
t + 1 В· y2
t вүҘ
(t + 1)1/2 y1.
Therefore, we have shown that yt вүҘ
вҲҡ
ty1 for every t вҲҲN as long as y1 is sufficiently small, which could be assumed to be
true since otherwise will yield our result directly. To conclude, we notice that t В· yt вүҘt1/2 В· y1 = t1/2 В· (1 вҲ’x1), which
goes to infinity as t вҶ’вҲһ.
L. Proof of Theorem 4.4
We first restate the theorem here.
Theorem 4.4. Suppose that the assumptions of Theorem 4.3 holds. Let (aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ) be the worst local maximiser of ut,
(aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ) = arg min
(a,b)вҲҲW
ut(a, b),
where W is the set of all local maximisers of ut. Then, there exists a finite constant Lu > 0 which is dependent on ut, such
that, for sufficiently large T вҲҲN, we have
E [uT (aT , bT )] вүҘut(aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ) вҲ’7LuT вҲ’1/2.
In this section, we will emphasise that the meaning of step-index t is the total number of bettors interacting with the
market. Denote the probability that the bettor will bet on the вҖқnot happenвҖқ and вҖқhappenвҖқ sides as Оәt := F(1 вҲ’bt) and
ПҒt := 1 вҲ’F(at) respectively. We consider the вҖқhappenвҖқ side, with probability ПҒt the process is updated as
at+1 = at вҲ’О·t+1(h(at) + Mt+1),
where h(at) = at + G(at) вҲ’E [pt | pt вүҘat] and Mt+1 = E [pt | pt вүҘat] вҲ’bpt. First, we need to identify the following
fact.
Lemma L.1. Under the assumptions of Theorem 4.3, if (aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ) is a local maximiser of u(a, b), then, within a compact
convex neighbourhood K of aвҷҜ, there exists constants Оұ, ОІ > 0 such that
Оұ(a вҲ’aвҷҜ)2 вүӨh(a) В· (a вҲ’aвҷҜ) вүӨОІ(a вҲ’aвҷҜ)2.
Proof. By Mertikopoulos et al. (2020, Lemma D.2), we first have
вҲ’ОІвҖІ(a вҲ’aвҷҜ)2 вүӨвҲӮu
вҲӮa В· (a вҲ’aвҷҜ) вүӨвҲ’ОұвҖІ(a вҲ’aвҷҜ)2,

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
for some positive constants ОұвҖІ, ОІвҖІ. We also notice that
вҲӮu
вҲӮa = (F(a) вҲ’1)(a вҲ’g)
a(1 вҲ’a)
+ E [(pt вҲ’a)+] (a2 вҲ’2ga + g)
a2(1 вҲ’a)2
= (1 вҲ’F(a))(a2 вҲ’2ga + g)
a2(1 вҲ’a)2
[вҲ’G(a) + E [pt | pt вүҘa] вҲ’a]
= (1 вҲ’F(a))(a2 вҲ’2ga + g)
a2(1 вҲ’a)2
В· (вҲ’h(a)).
It is clear that the function (1вҲ’F (a))(a2вҲ’2ga+g)
a2(1вҲ’a)2
is strictly positive and continuous for 0 < a < 1. Since the neighbourhood
K is compact, hence the function is bounded. In particular, it is lower bounded by some positive constant as long as K is
small enough. Therefore, the result follows.
We are ready the present the descent lemma.
Lemma L.2. Define Dt = 1
2(at вҲ’aвҷҜ)2. Let K and Оұ be as in Lemma L.1. Suppose the process stays in K whenever t вүҘ1.
If the bettorвҖҷs belief pt+1 вүҘat then
Dt+1 вүӨ(1 вҲ’2ОұО·t+1)Dt + О·t+1Оҫt+1 + 1
2О·2
t+1Лңh(at)2,
(22)
where Оҫt+1 = Mt+1(aвҷҜвҲ’at) and Лңh(at) = h(at) + Mt+1.
Proof. We could notice that,
Dt+1 = 1
2(at+1 вҲ’aвҷҜ)2
= 1

at вҲ’О·t+1(h(at) + Mt+1) вҲ’aвҷҜ2
= Dt вҲ’О·t+1(h(at) + Mt+1)(at вҲ’aвҷҜ) + 1
2О·2
t+1(h(at) + Mt+1)2
вүӨDt вҲ’2ОұО·t+1Dt + О·t+1Оҫt+1 + 1
2О·2
t+1(h(at) + Mt+1)2,
where the last inequality follows from Lemma L.1.
Next, we present a technical lemma characterising the growth of the recurrence relation we are studying.
Lemma L.3 (Chung (1954, Lemma 2)). Let (xt)tвҲҲN be a nonnegative sequence such that
xt+1 вүӨ

1 вҲ’
P
t + m

xt +
R
(t + m)1+r ,
where r, m, P, R > 0 and P > r. Then
xt вүӨ
R
P вҲ’r
t + o
1
t

.
Now, we are ready to prove Theorem 4.4.
Proof of Theorem 4.4. We first assume that the process is bounded within the neighbourhood K of a maximiser aвҷҜdefined
in Lemma L.2. We note that
E [О·t+1Оҫt+1] = О·t+1E [E [Оҫt+1 | Ft]] = О·t+1E

(aвҷҜвҲ’at)E [Mt+1 | Ft]

= 0.
(23)
And also,
E
1
2О·2
t+1Лңh(at)2

= 1
2О·2
t+1E

(h(at) + Mt+1)2
вүӨО·2
t+1E

h(at)2 + M 2
t+1

вүӨ5О·2
t+1,
(24)

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
where the last inequality follows from Lemma K.1. Denote At as the event that bettor t will bet on the positive side. Then
E [Dt+1] = ПҒtE [Dt+1 | At+1] + (1 вҲ’ПҒt)E

Dt+1 | Ac
t+1

= ПҒtE [Dt+1 | At+1] + (1 вҲ’ПҒt)E [Dt]
вүӨПҒt(1 вҲ’2ОұО·t+1)E [Dt] + 5ПҒtО·2
t+1 + (1 вҲ’ПҒt)E [Dt]
= (1 вҲ’2ОұПҒtО·t+1)E [Dt] + 5ПҒtО·2
t+1,
where the third line follows from Lemma L.2 and the fact that the sigma-algebras Пғ(At+1) and Пғ(Dt) are independent.
Further, since the process is bounded within K, we have
ПҒt = 1 вҲ’F(at) вүҘ1 вҲ’F(sup K) =: ПҒ.
Since K could be arbitrarily small, and the number of maximisers is finite, we could assume that sup K < 1 and hence
ПҒ > 0. Then
E [Dt+1] вүӨ(1 вҲ’2ОұПҒО·t+1)E [Dt] + 5О·2
t+1
Hence, by Lemma L.3, when ОұПҒОі > 1 and t is large enough, we have
E [Dt] вүӨ
2ОұПҒОі вҲ’1
t + o
1
t

вүӨ6
t ,
where Оі could be taken to be large enough that ОұПҒОі > 1. Recalling that О·t+1 =
Оі
t+m, this does not affect the former
statements on restricting the process within [g, 1] since we could let m be large enough accordingly. By the JensenвҖҷs
inequality,
E
h


at вҲ’aвҷҜ
t




i2
вүӨ2E [Dt] вүӨ12
t ,
which implies that



E
h
|at вҲ’aвҷҜ
t|
i


 вүӨ
q
t . By the Lipschitz continuity of u, we could further get
E
h


u(at, bt) вҲ’u(aвҷҜ
t, bвҷҜ
t)




i
вүӨLuE
h


at вҲ’aвҷҜ
t



 +



bt вҲ’bвҷҜ
t




i
вүӨ4
вҲҡ
3LutвҲ’1/2.
Now we ease the assumption that the process (at)вҲһ
t=1 вҠӮK. By Theorem 4.3, the process will converge to at least one of the
maximisers with probability 1. Hence, there exists some constant N, we must have (at)вҲһ
t=N вҠӮK. Therefore, for t large
enough, we could eventually get
E
h


u(at, bt) вҲ’u(aвҷҜ
t, bвҷҜ
t)




i
вүӨ4
вҲҡ
3Lu(t вҲ’N)вҲ’1/2 вүӨ7LutвҲ’1/2.
Finally, as we could not make sure which maximiser is (aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ), we could at least take (aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ) as the worst maximiser as
stated in the theorem, which yields the result.
M. Proof of Theorem 4.5
Theorem 4.5. Suppose that the assumptions of Theorem 4.3 holds. For any constant Оҙ < 1
2, let (aвҷӯ, bвҷӯ) be one of the local
maximisers of ut. Then there exist neighbourhoods U1 and U of (aвҷӯ, bвҷӯ) such that, if (a1, b1) вҲҲU1, the event
в„ҰU = {(at, bt) вҲҲU for all t вҲҲN}
occurs with probability at least 1 вҲ’Оҙ. Moreover, there exists a finite constant Lu > 0 which is dependent on ut, such that,
for sufficiently large T вҲҲN, we have
E
h


ut(aвҷӯ
T , bвҷӯ
T ) вҲ’ut(aT , bT )



 | в„ҰU
i
вүӨ4
вҲҡ
6LuT вҲ’1/2.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Let U be a neighbourhood of aвҷҜand Пө > 0, similar to Mertikopoulos et al. (2020), we will use the following notations,
At = {pt вүҘpm,tвҲ’1},
О¶t =
t
X
k=1
1Ak+1О·k+1Оҫk+1, St = 1
t
X
k=1
1Ak+1О·2
k+1Лңh(pm,k)2,
Rt = О¶2
t + St,
в„Ұt = в„Ұt(U) = {pm,k вҲҲU for all k = 1, 2, . . . , t},
Et = Et(Пө) = {Rk вүӨПө for all k = 1, 2, . . . , t}.
In particular, we make the following relation between U and Пө that
{a : (a вҲ’aвҷҜ)2 вүӨ4Пө + 2вҲҡПө} вҠӮU.
The following technical lemma further controls the noise terms Rt. We will present the proof for the sake of completeness
but we note that the proof idea is similar to Lemma D.3 of Mertikopoulos et al. (2020).
Lemma M.1 (Mertikopoulos et al. (2020, Lemma D.3)). Asumme that (a1 вҲ’aвҷҜ)2 вүӨ2Пө, under the assumptions in
Theorem 4.3, for t = 1, 2, . . ., we have
1. в„Ұt+1 вҠӮв„Ұt and Et+1 вҠӮEt.
2. EtвҲ’1 вҠӮв„Ұt.
3. Consider the following event
ЛңEt := EtвҲ’1 \ Et = EtвҲ’1 вҲ©{Rt > Пө} = {Rk вүӨПө for all k = 1, 2, . . . , n вҲ’1 and Rt > Пө},
and let ЛңRt = Rt1EtвҲ’1 denote the cumulative error subject to the fact that the noise is being small until t, then
E
h
ЛңRt
i
вүӨE
h
ЛңRtвҲ’1
i
+
 5 + r2
U

О·2
t+1 вҲ’ПөP
h
ЛңEtвҲ’1
i
,
(25)
where rU = supaвҲҲU |a вҲ’aвҷҜ| and, by convention, we set ЛңE0 = вҲ…and ЛңR0 = 0.
Proof. For 1, it comes directly from the definition of Et and в„Ұt.
For 2, we will prove it by induction. For the base case (t = 1), we have E0 = в„Ұwhich is the whole probability space, and
в„Ұ1 = {a1 вҲҲU} which is specified by the assumption that (a1 вҲ’aвҷҜ)2 вүӨ2Пө. For the step case, we assume that EtвҲ’1 вҠӮв„Ұt.
It is equivalent to the fact that if Rk вүӨПө for every k = 1, 2, . . . , t вҲ’1 then pm,k вҲҲU for all k = 1, 2 . . . t. Hence, by the
fact that Et+1 вҠӮEt, we only need to show that at+1 вҲҲU when Rt вүӨПө. For realisations that pt+1 < at, we could see that
at+1 = at вҲҲU. For realisations that pt+1 вүҘat, by Lemma L.2, we have
Dk+1 вүӨDk + О·k+1Оҫk+1 + 1
2О·2
k+1Лңh(at)2,
for every k = 1, 2, . . . , t. Therefore, summing up both sides from k = 1 to k = t gives
Dt+1 вүӨD1 + О¶t + St вүӨ
p
Rt + Rt вүӨПө + вҲҡПө + Пө = 2Пө + вҲҡПө.
Since {a : (a вҲ’aвҷҜ)2 вүӨ4Пө + 2вҲҡПө} вҠӮU, the results follows.
For 3, we notice that
ЛңRt = Rt1EtвҲ’1 = RtвҲ’11EtвҲ’1 + (Rt вҲ’RtвҲ’1)1EtвҲ’1
= RtвҲ’11EtвҲ’2 вҲ’RtвҲ’11 Лң
EtвҲ’1 + (Rt вҲ’RtвҲ’1)1EtвҲ’1
= ЛңRtвҲ’1 + (Rt вҲ’RtвҲ’1)1EtвҲ’1 вҲ’RtвҲ’11 Лң
EtвҲ’1.
(26)

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
We first focus on the term (Rt вҲ’RtвҲ’1)1EtвҲ’1. If pt < at, then Rt вҲ’RtвҲ’1 = 0. If pt вүҘat, we have
Rt вҲ’RtвҲ’1 = О¶2
t вҲ’О¶2
tвҲ’1 + St вҲ’StвҲ’1
= О·t+1Оҫt+1(О¶t + О¶tвҲ’1) + 1
2О·2
t+1Лңh(at)2
= 2О·t+1Оҫt+1О¶tвҲ’1 + О·2
t+1Оҫ2
t+1 + 1
2О·2
t+1Лңh(at)2.
Then, we deal with the above term by term. For the first term, we have
E

1EtвҲ’12О·t+1Оҫt+1О¶tвҲ’1 | At

= E

1EtвҲ’12О·t+1О¶tвҲ’1E [Оҫt+1 | Ft] | At

= 0,
where the first equality follows from the fact that О¶tвҲ’1 and 1EtвҲ’1 are Ft measurable and О·t+1 is constant, the second equality
follows from the assumption that E [Mt+1 | Ft] = 0. For the second term, we have
E

О·2
t+11EtвҲ’1Оҫ2
t+1

вүӨО·2
t+1E

1в„ҰtM 2
t+1(aвҷҜвҲ’at)2
вүӨО·2
t+1r2
U.
For the third term, we have
2О·2
t+1E
h
Лңh(at)2i
вүӨ1
2О·2
t+1E

2(M 2
t+1 + h(at)2)

вүӨ5.
Therefore, in summary, we have
E

1EtвҲ’1(Rt вҲ’RtвҲ’1)

вүӨО·2
t+1(5 + r2
U).
Next, for the last term of (26), we have
E
h
RtвҲ’11 Лң
EtвҲ’1
i
вүҘПөE
h
1 Лң
EtвҲ’1
i
= ПөP
h
ЛңEtвҲ’1
i
,
where the first inequality follows from the definition of ЛңEtвҲ’1. Putting everything together to (26) will yield the result.
The following lemma controls the probability of escaping.
Lemma M.2 (Mertikopoulos et al. (2020, Proposition D.2)). Fix the tolerance level Оҙ > 0, under the assumptions in
Theorem 4.3 and Theorem 4.4, we have
P [Et] вүҘ1 вҲ’Оҙ, вҲҖt вҲҲN.
Proof. First, we note that
P
h
ЛңEt
i
= P [EtвҲ’1 вҲ©{Rt > Пө}] = E

1EtвҲ’1 В· 1{Rt>Пө}

вүӨE

1EtвҲ’1 В· Rt
Пө

= E
h
ЛңRt
i
/Пө,
where the inequality follows from the fact that Rt/Пө > 1 when Rt > Пө. Next, summing over both sides from 1 to t for (25),
we get
E
h
ЛңRt
i
вүӨE
h
ЛңR0
i
+ RвӢҶ
t
X
k=1
О·2
k+1 вҲ’Пө
t
X
k=1
P
h
ЛңEkвҲ’1
i
,
where RвӢҶ= 5 + r2
U. Hence, we combining the above findings, we have
t
X
k=1
P
h
ЛңEk
i
= P
h
ЛңEt
i
+
t
X
k=1
P
h
ЛңEkвҲ’1
i
вүӨ1
Пө
 
E
h
ЛңRt
i
+ E
h
ЛңR0
i
вҲ’E
h
ЛңRt
i
+ RвӢҶ
t
X
k=1
О·2
k+1
!
= RвӢҶ
Пө
t
X
k=1
О·2
k+1.
Therefore, by controlling the learning rate small enough such that RвӢҶ
Пө
Pt
k=1 О·2
k+1 вүӨОҙ, and the fact that ( ЛңEk)t
k=1 are disjoint,
we could conclude that
P [Et] = P
"
t\
k=1
ЛңEc
k
#
= 1 вҲ’P
"
t[
k=1
ЛңEt
#
= 1 вҲ’
t
X
k=1
P
h
ЛңEk
i
вүҘ1 вҲ’Оҙ.

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
Now, we are ready to put everything together.
Proof of Theorem 4.5. First, we have
P [в„ҰU] = P
" вҲһ
\
t=1
в„Ұt
#
= inf
tвҲҲN P [в„Ұt] вүҘinf
tвҲҲN P [EtвҲ’1] вүҘ1 вҲ’Оҙ,
where the second-to-last inequality follows from the fact that EtвҲ’1 вҠӮв„Ұt for every t вҲҲN, and the last inequality follows
from Lemma M.2. Next, by (23) and (24), we have
E

1в„Ұn

О·t+1Оҫt+1 + 1
2О·2
t+1Лңh(a)2

вүӨE

О·t+1Оҫt+1 + 1
2О·2
t+1Лңh(a)2

вүӨ5О·2
t+1.
Hence, let ВҜDt = E [1в„ҰtDt], ПҒ = 1 вҲ’sup U, by (22), we have
ВҜDt+1 = ПҒtE
 ВҜDt+1 | At+1

+ (1 вҲ’ПҒt)E
 ВҜDt+1 | Ac
t+1

= ПҒtE
 ВҜDt+1 | At+1

+ (1 вҲ’ПҒt)E
 ВҜDt | Ac
t+1

вүӨПҒt(1 вҲ’2ОұО·t+1) ВҜDt + E

1в„Ұn

О·t+1Оҫt+1 + 1
2О·2
t+1Лңh(a)2

+ (1 вҲ’ПҒt) ВҜDt
вүӨ(1 вҲ’2ПҒОұО·t+1) ВҜDt + 5О·2
t+1.
where the third line follows from Lemma L.2, the independence of Пғ(At+1) and Пғ(Dt), and the fact that в„Ұt+1 вҠӮв„Ұt.
Therefore, by Lemma L.3, we have
ВҜDt вүӨ
2ОұПҒОі вҲ’1
t + o
1
t

вүӨ6
t ,
whenever ОұПҒОі вүҘ1 and t is large enough. Also, we have
E

(at вҲ’aвҷҜ)2 | в„ҰU

вүӨE

(at вҲ’aвҷҜ)21в„ҰU

P [в„ҰU]
вүӨ
1 вҲ’Оҙ
ВҜDt вүӨ
1 вҲ’Оҙ В· 1
t .
By JensenвҖҷs inequality, we could conclude that
E


at вҲ’aвҷҜ

 | в„ҰU

вүӨ
r
1 вҲ’Оҙ В· tвҲ’1/2.
Hence,
E


u(at, b) вҲ’u(aвҷҜ, bвҷҜ)


 | в„ҰU

вүӨLuE


at вҲ’aвҷҜ

 | в„ҰU

+ LuE


bt вҲ’bвҷҜ

 | в„ҰU

вүӨ4
r
1 вҲ’Оҙ Lu В· tвҲ’1/2 вүӨ2
вҲҡ
6Lu В· tвҲ’1/2.
N. Proof of Theorem 5.1
Theorem 5.1. Suppose that both g and E [pt] lie in the open interval (П„, 1 вҲ’П„) and wt is uniformly bounded above by an
absolute constant, almost surely. Suppose (at, bt)tвҲҲN is the price sequence generated by Algorithm 2. Then there exists a
finite L > 0 such that for any Оҙ > 0 and for sufficiently large T вҲҲN, we have
ut(aT , bT ) вүҘut(aвӢҶ, bвӢҶ) вҲ’LT вҲ’1/2p
log(1/Оҙ),
with probability at least 1 вҲ’Оҙ.
First, it is straightforward to verify that u(a, 1 вҲ’a) is concave w.r.t. a. By equating the gradient to 0, we could get the
following closed-form expression of the unique maximiser
aвӢҶ=
p
g В· E [pt]
p
g В· E [pt] +
p
(1 вҲ’g) В· (1 вҲ’E [pt])
.
(27)

Online Learning in Betting Markets: Profit versus Prediction
The remainder of the proofs comes from determining a martingale property for the accumulation of bpt, utilising the
Azuma-Hoeffding Inequality, and exploiting the local Lipschitz properties of functions. We first recall the Azuma-Hoeffding
Inequality.
Theorem N.1 (Azuma-Hoeffding Inequality). Let (Xt)tвҲҲNвҲӘ{0} be a martingale w.r.t. filtration (FtвҲҲNвҲӘ{0}). Suppose that
|Xt вҲ’XtвҲ’1| вүӨct for all t вҲҲN for non-negative (ct)tвҲҲN. Then
P [|XT вҲ’X0| > r] вүӨ2 exp
 
вҲ’
2r2
PT
t=1 c2
t
!
.
Proof of Theorem 5.1. Let П„ > 0. By unwinding Eq. (13), we have
pt = 1
t
t
X
tвҖІ=1
c
ptвҖІ.
Let X0 = 0, and Xt = Pt
tвҖІ=1(c
ptвҖІ вҲ’E [pt]). Note that Xt = XtвҲ’1 + (bpt вҲ’E [pt]). Since bpt is an unbiased estimator of
E [pt] under the filtration FtвҲ’1, the sequence (Xt)tвҲҲNвҲӘ{0} is a martingale w.r.t. to its natural filtration (Ft)tвҲҲNвҲӘ{0}. Also,
due to the assumption that wt is bounded almost surely, each c
ptвҖІ is bounded almost surely too. Thus, for all sufficiently
large T, we can apply the Azuma-Hoeffding inequality to derive that
P [XT > r] вүӨ2 exp
 вҲ’в„Ұ(r2/T)

.
In particular, by setting r = Оҳ(
q
T log 1
Оҙ ), the RHS of the above inequality is at most Оҙ. By noting that pT = 1
T XT +E [pt],
we can conclude that with probability 1 вҲ’Оҙ, pT lies within the interval E [pt] Вұ Оҳ(T вҲ’1/2q
log 1
Оҙ ). When T is sufficiently
large, this interval is a strict subset of the interval [П„, 1 вҲ’П„], so the clipping in Algorithm 2 is no longer effective.
Thus, aT updated by the algorithm using Eq. (14) lies within the interval ПҲ(E [pt]) Вұ O(T вҲ’1/2q
log 1
Оҙ ), since the function
ПҲ is Lipschitz continuous locally around E [pt]. Here, we use the assumption that both g and E [pt] lie in the open interval
(П„, 1 вҲ’П„), to ensure that aвӢҶ= ПҲ(E [pt]) вҲҲ(П„, 1 вҲ’П„) too, and hence the interval aвӢҶВұ O(T вҲ’1/2q
log 1
Оҙ ) is a subset of
(П„, 1 вҲ’П„) for all sufficiently large T.
Finally, the theorem follows by using the local Lipschitz continuity around aвӢҶof the profit function.